#ARTIFACTS

kObj::TheOrgasmatron - Bizarro Orgasmatron
    This multi-tool of pleasure is all you will ever need.  With
    its eleven power levels you can relax in the public transport
    tubes to the sweet hum of the toe orgasm without anybody noticing.
    Spice up any seven-gender sophomore orgy with over nine
    thousand gigawatts of nerve-searing bliss.

    Also available in black, purple, gold plate and simulated
    wood grain finish.

    Energy cells not included.

kObj::FakeOrgasmatron1 - Bizarre Orgasmatron
    Happiness multitool.  You not need more anything anymore.  Fifteen
    power levels, more good than of other companies.  Arcturian Wife
    no longer go menhouse.  Lonely weekend boring no more.

    Also available in orange, cola and artichoke flavor.

    AC/DC adapter inside box.

kObj::FakeOrgasmatron2 - Bizaaro Orgasmatron
    *REF:Bizarre Orgasmatron

kObj::FakeOrgasmatron3 - Bizzaro Orgasmatron
    *REF:Bizarre Orgasmatron

kObj::FakeOrgasmatron4 - Bazaaro Orgasmatron
    *REF:Bizarre Orgasmatron

kObj::FakeOrgasmatron5 - Bazarro Orgasmatron
    *REF:Bizarre Orgasmatron

kObj::RabbitFoot - rabbit foot
    The luck-enhancing properties of the rabbit's foot were proven
    in a laboratory setting a long time ago.  This revolutionary
    discovery led, of course, to the galaxy-wide near extinction
    of rabbits and to a growing market of counterfeit rabbit feet
    (usually hare feet).  Now only the fiercest and most vicious
    of rabbits are extant.  They're probably putting together some
    sort of galactic domination agenda which no doubt will come to
    fruition since each of them, after all, has four rabbit feet.

kObj::RedPill - red pill
    Morpheus: You take the red pill - you stay in Wonderland and I show
              you how deep the rabbit-hole goes.

    Morpheus: Remember... all I'm offering is the truth.  Nothing more.

    Cypher: If you'd told us the truth, we would've told you to shove
            that red pill right up your ass.

        [ The Matrix, 1999. Written and directed by Wachowski Brothers ]

kObj::BluePill - blue pill
    Morpheus: This is your last chance.  After this, there is no turning
              back.  You take the blue pill - the story ends, you wake
              up in your bed and believe whatever you want to believe.

    Cypher: I know what you're thinking, 'cause right now I'm thinking
            the same thing.  Actually, I've been thinking it ever since
            I got here: Why oh why didn't I take the BLUE pill?

        [ The Matrix, 1999. Written and directed by Wachowski Brothers ]

#TOOLS

kObj::Money - buckazoid
    The Buckazoid is the base currency of civilized residents
    of the Galaxy, minted on Xenon.  It seems to be a rather
    unstable currency and very prone to inflation and deflation.
    Alternatively, it could have different values in different
    contexts.

        [ Space Quest Omnipedia at spacequest.wikia.com ]

kObj::Keycard1 - red keycard
    This small piece of plastic hardware need only be waved in close
    proximity to a sensor to confirm access level and open the door.
    Thanks to its compatibility with USB ports it is possible to
    quickly and easily set its bit pattern to match one and only
    one of doors in a giant building or hand pick several unrelated
    locks.  One can program it to open all passages in one place if
    desired.  Remember to enter both passwords in correct order to
    validate changes.

    To prevent unauthorized tampering keycards are protected by
    the best encryption and security firmware known to the galaxy.

kObj::Keycard2 - green keycard
    *REF:red keycard

kObj::Keycard3 - blue keycard
    *REF:red keycard

kObj::Keycard4 - purple keycard
    *REF:red keycard

kObj::Keycard5 - orange keycard
    *REF:red keycard

kObj::MasterKeycard - master keycard
    *REF:red keycard

    The master keycard can open any working lock.

#kObj::GenericTool - tool
#   This category covers any helpful items that make adventuring safer
#   and easier.  They allow the hero access to knowledge or actions
#   that would be difficult (or impossible) to attain otherwise.
#
#   Their main function is usually accessed with the apply command.
#   Some tools require energy cells to use.

kObj::DuctTape - roll of duct tape
    It is said that duct tape holds the world together.
    You can use it to repair things.

kObj::DroidCaller - droid caller
    This tool is capable of summoning robots to your
    immediate vicinity.  Useful if you have restrained
    a droid and need its aid right now.  Beware!  Buggy
    callers have been known to transport all robotic
    entities to your location, angering them.

    They say that Luke Skywalker managed to contact his
    R2 unit asking it to disable garbage compactors in
    an imperial starship.  Maybe you can too?

kObj::Flashlight - flashlight
    A simple yet essential device.  The simple flashlight
    provides a source of light and jacks up dramatic pathos
    if you shine it on some otherworldly monstrosity.

kObj::GeigerCounter - geiger counter
    Radiation is a stealthy hazard.  You usually do not realize
    you are taking rads until your health fails and radiation
    sickness symptoms appear.  When activated this item clicks
    when something irradiating is in your immediate vicinity.

    If it clicks try leaving the area to see whether the
    environment is irradiating you.  Gamma caves are especially
    dangerous.  If the geiger counter still clicks after leaving
    the area, perhaps it is something you are carrying that is
    sending off radioactive particles.  Drop everything until
    you hear the clicks slow or stop.

    It is possible to sort out items sending off radiation
    using the Geiger counter.  Leaving these might be prudent
    decision.

kObj::Khaydarin - Khaydarin crystal shard
    This mineral shard seems very pure and appears almost
    translucent.  When you grasp it your mind is flooded with
    thoughts.  A while later you realize they were not your
    own.  The effect fades as soon as you release the shard.

    When you concentrate on the shard its latent energies
    release, calming your mind.  For some reason it is very
    valued by the High Templar.  They claim Khaydarin crystal
    can grant psychics a favor unattainable by other means.

kObj::LockPick - lock pick
    A set of locksmith's tools that will find plenty of use, though
    probably in a less lawful manner than that stated by the marketers.

    There is an urban myth that lock picks cannot open doors
    protected by a retinal scanner.  It is possible, just difficult.

kObj::Medicomp - medicomp
    Medicomp is one of the Predator's most vital pieces of equipment.
    It heals the Yautja as well as being able to heal other warriors.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    Medicomp has limited supplies represented by charge count.

    Curing plague...................10 charges
    Restoring ability damage.........4 charges
    Wound healing (4-24 points)......1 charge

    Administering medicine to heal wounds will also remove confusion,
    stunning and sore conditions.  If the conditions are present but
    not any other physical wounds the cure can also be administered
    but it is partially wasted as it uses full charge.

kObj::MonkeyWrench - monkey wrench
    The monkey wrench makes the ideal tool for fixing things
    or clubbing someone over the head.  Its enhancement counts
    as bonus (or malus) for both actions.

kObj::MotionTracker - motion tracker
    This handy tool can detect moving entities within a small radius.
    Many marines preferred to turn it on and off periodically to
    conserve energy cells.  They perished as a result because they
    had to face a dangerous creature up close instead of being warned
    of its presence from afar.

kObj::PortableHole - portable hole
        P O R T A B L E   H O L E   U S E R   M A N U A L

    1. Preamble

    Thank you for purchasing this fine product.  Please read the
    license agreement before using the portable hole.  Applying
    the hole in any way accepts the license.

    2. How to use

    The most common way is to lay it on an open floor space to create
    a hole leading down to the lower floor.  It may also be employed
    by placing it on a wall.

    2.1 Laying the product on the floor

    After placing it on a floor segment the portable hole activates,
    immediately creating a passage downwards.  You may rely on it
    for instant escape by placing the hole directly below yourself.

    2.2 Laying the product on a wall

    You may wish to lay the portable hole on a wall.  Thin walls
    (up to three segments) are tunneled through immediately.

    2.2.1 Laying the product on a thin wall

    The diagrams below show examples of when a hole will
    activate successfully and when applying it will fail.

    ##########     #.#          #.........    ...# #....
    ...+......     #.#  ####    #.........    ...# #....
    ...X######    ##'####...    #####+####    ..@X##....
    ..@#          #....##...        #.#       ####.#####
    ...#          #...@X#...    ##X##+###     ####+###
    ...#          #....####+    ..@.....#      #.....#
    ####          #....#  #.    ........#      #.....#

     Figure 1      Figure 2      Figure 3      Figure 4
      (good)        (good)        (good)        (bad!)

    2.2.2 Laying the product on a thick wall

    To dig a tunnel of arbitrary length you can connect two holes.
    If a hole stays on a wall without creating a tunnel it means
    the depth is too great.  You need to open another hole on the
    opposite side to complete the tunnel.

     #######          ###......+...................#
     #.....#          #.+......###############...^.#
     #.}...#          ###......#             #.....#
     #.....#            ########             ##+####
     #....i#                                  #.#
     #....jA********************************B##+##
     ###'###                                #k...#
       #.#                                  #....#
       #.#                                  #....#
       #.#                                  #....#

            Figure 5 - Creating a long tunnel

    To dig a tunnel from point A to B one needs to place the first
    hole while standing either at point i or j.  Then place second
    hole standing at point k. Note that the presented tunnel can
    only be activated by standing directly on point j.  Opening the
    hole from other angles will cause the generator to attempt
    connecting in the wrong direction.  This will cause a failure,
    destroying the hole.

    All intervening spaces between the two holes (not including
    spots they are placed on) cannot be adjacent to open floor or
    the digging process will fail.

    3. Disclaimer

    THERE IS NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.  WE TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR MONSTERS USING THESE TUNNELS TO COOK, CUT, SHOOT, MAIM,
    DISMEMBER, BURN, DISSOLVE, DISINTEGRATE OR OTHERWISE CAUSE
    BODILY HARM TO THE USER.

kObj::ProximityMine - proximity mine
    The portable mine, this little beauty uses a weighted base and
    ultrasonics to set up a 3-meter detection circle with a 5-meter
    explosion.  Exceedingly useful for mining corridors in base defense
    missions or "softening up" aliens emerging from UFO doors.

        [ UFOpaedia at www.ufopaedia.org ]

kObj::RestrainingBolt - restraining bolt
    A restraining bolt, also known as a restraining separator
    bolt, is a small device that can be attached to most
    droids.  It is used to ensure droid obedience.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    Due to its magnetic properties it is possible to restrain
    bots and droids from afar by skillfully throwing the bolt.

kObj::TransferCable - transfer cable
    The transfer cable is a third party accessory designed for
    use with Papa's Power Packs energy tanks.  PPP has patented
    its technology, making production of compatible third party
    tools illegal.  Despite this, third party transfer cables are
    still produced.  Though the existence of third party cables
    actually increases sales of PPP energy tanks, the company
    has yet to officially make any exceptions or allowances for
    the legal production of third party products.

    So far the legal issue has been dodged by citing a loophole
    in the law regarding the definition of "compatible".  The
    transfer cable is not entirely compatible due to the net
    energy loss incurred during power transfer.

    Even the optimized cables are only 99% compatible, resulting
    in a loss of 1% net power through the transfer process.  Which
    is certainly worth it if you do not enjoy lugging several
    half-empty tanks.  The unofficial manual says standard cables
    cause a loss of 3%, while using buggy equipment may cause up
    to 10% of transferred energy to dissipate into the void.

kObj::Tricorder - tricorder
    A tricorder is a multifunctional hand-held device
    useful for sensing, analyzing and recording data.
    Many specialized capabilities make it an asset to
    crews aboard starships and space stations as well
    as on away missions.

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

    A quick application of a tricorder is only able to
    provide rudimentary information about a subject.
    To perform precise lifeform condition analysis please
    make sure the target stays still during the scan.

    If you only need a subject's health state a quick sweep
    will do.  It requires a single energy cell but is so fast
    the enemy will not have time to strike you.  A full body
    scan requires nine energy cells.
    
    The tricorder is versatile enough to scan other objects
    of interest as well.  Try pointing it down over organic
    items or interesting space base features.  This requires
    five energy cells to anlyze a sludge vat and one to check
    for life signs in an object.  Thorough scan of an item
    takes additional two energy cells but is only needed
    when something living is found.

kObj::EnergyTank - energy tank
    Storing energy cells into an energy tank serves a twofold
    purpose.  First, unprotected cells are vulnerable to
    shortening which the tank protects against.  Second, it
    helps manage weight issues.

    Small energy tank weight equals weight of 100 cells.
    Large energy tank weight equals weight of 150 cells.

    It is not possible to move charges between tanks without
    the application of a transfer cable.

kObj::EnergyCell - energy cell
    This standard energy format was imposed after a protracted
    and inhuman war that spanned 75 years and claimed many
    lives.  These compact batteries are now the only portable
    disposable energy source you'll see in the galaxy.

    Their main problem is vulnerability to shorting out.

kObj::SmallEnergyTank - small energy tank
    These energy tanks are provided by a different manufacturer
    than their matching energy cells.  This is done under a mutually
    beneficial arrangement.  The story of how this arrangement was
    reached during the brutal Energy Cell Format War is still
    whispered about in both companies' corridors.  The hushed tones
    contain barely concealed shame or pride depending on who you ask.
    *REF:energy tank

kObj::LargeEnergyTank - large energy tank
    Near the end of the Energy Cell Format War the conflict devolved
    into a classic Mexican standoff.  Argon Incorporated, manufacturer
    of the energy cells we all know and love, was storming the
    headquarters of Papa's Power Packs.  What Argon Incorporated did not
    take into account was the belter background of PPP's founders.  When
    Argon's crack mercenary team breached the fortified conference room
    in the center of PPP headquarters they were met with a seemingly
    never-ending hail of bullets.  The redoubt was filled with a sizable
    militia of battle-hardened miners.  When the dust had settled Argon
    CEO had his plasma rifle against Papa's head. Papa, in turn, had
    the business end of his shotgun pressing the CEO's crotch.

    After a short but uncomfortable parlay a contract was signed.  And
    so now we have standardized energy tanks.
    *REF:energy tank

kObj::Junk - heap of space junk
    A heavy, half-molten and rusty hunk of
    useless scrap metal and dead machinery.

    What the hell did you pick it up for?

kObj::Wreck - wreck
    You can repair this disabled machine to bring it back on-line.
    Do not count on gratitude alone to make it peaceful towards you.

#IMPLANTS

#kObj::GenericImplant - bionic implant
#   Most bionic implants are installed directly into the brain.
#   Humanoid brains generally have five lobes in which cranial
#   implants may be placed.  These are:
#
#    - frontal lobe
#    - temporal lobe
#    - parietal lobe
#    - occipital lobe
#    - cerebellum
#
#   Usually it is irrelevant where exactly you install wetware,
#   thus bionic implant firmware will make this decision for you.
#   Be cautioned that sometimes the location matters.  When this
#   occurs please make sure to install site-aware bionics first.
#   Also be warned if you damage the firmware most commonly
#   occurring defect is inability to remove the implant from the
#   brain.
#
#   Using implants is not without its tradeoffs.  Bionics (especially
#   residing in cranium) hamper your psychic aura, which is of utmost
#   importance to Psions and mutants.

#kObj::GenericSkillsoft - skillsoft
#   Skillsofts are special variety of cranial bionic implants.
#   Instead of manipulating hormone production of your brain,
#   or majorly affecting some of its functions, it mainly does
#   one thing but does it well: provides you with a knowledge
#   database.  The impact on psionic aura is lesser in comparison
#   to other cranial implants.
#
#   Effective skill increase varies according to exact bionic
#   type and quality.

kObj::AdrenalineGenerator - adrenaline generator
    This implant draws a small amount of common chemicals
    from the blood and refactors them into extra adrenaline.
    This raises the baseline performance level of the muscles.

kObj::BabelFish - babel fish
    The Babel fish is small, yellow and leech-like, and probably
    the oddest thing in the universe.  It feeds on brainwave energy
    received not from it's own carrier but from those around it.
    It absords all unconcious mental frequencies from this brainwave
    energy to nourish itself with.  It then excretes into the mind of
    it's carrier a telepathic matrix formed by combining the conscious
    thought frequencies with nerve signals picked up from the speech
    centres of the brain which has supplied them.

    The pratical upshot of all this is that if you stick a Babel fish
    in your ear you can instantly understand anything said to you in
    any form of language.  The speech patterns you actually hear decode
    the brainwave matrix which has been fed into your mind by your
    Babel fish.

    The poor Babel fish, by effectively removing all barriers to
    communication between different races and cultures, has caused more
    and bloodier wars than anything else in the history of creation.

        [ The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams ]

kObj::CerebralCoprocessor - cerebral coprocessor
    This implant provides advanced cognitive functions,
    mainly analytical and mathematical, which would
    require years of training to develop otherwise.
    Originally developed in a medical context for
    the treatment of the mentally impaired, it soon
    found its way to the black market.  Eventually
    the research lobbies tore down all regulations
    regarding its production and market circulation.

kObj::Excruciator - excruciator
    Can you imagine, alien, what it must have been like to wear
    an Excruciator?  To live in endless screaming pain for months
    on end?  No you cannot.

        [ Star Control II, developed by Toys for Bob ]

    The Ur-Quan race has been enslaved long ago by a race of
    psychic mind controllers known as the Dnyarri.  A brilliant
    scientist Kzer-Za discovered that great amount of pain and
    suffering forced psionicist to disconnect thus freeing the
    controled subject from his influence.  Many Ur-Quan opted to
    wound themselves in order to generate enough pain.  To meet
    this need without resorting to body mutilation the Excruciator
    was invented.  It constantly stimulates brain pain centers
    sending waves upon waves of suffering on the bearer.

    The constant tortures make gathering thought almost impossible
    at first because unlike pleasure it does not take increased
    dosages of stimulus to achieve the same effect in body.  One
    simply cannot become addicted to pain and remain sane at the
    same time.  However, learning to cope with constant suffering
    is possible.  Mental processes can continue to process at more
    or less same efficiency but at the stage bearer's psyche is
    guaranteed to be permanently scarred.  Pain also numbs tactile
    senses greatly affecting dexterity and to much lesser degree
    also one's nimbleness.  Reaction speed takes a significant toll
    because suffering always claims a portion of wearer's attention.

kObj::GloryDevice - glory device
    The Glory Device is the biggest and most effective weapon
    of the Shofixti Scout.  A good Shofixti pilot can use this
    suicide bomb to create chaos and destruction wherever he
    goes, killing ships much larger than himself.

        [ Ultronomicon at wiki.uqm.stack.nl ]

    First Glory Devices were giant explosives attached to
    early Shofixti space ships.  Nowadays the name has been
    reused for miniature cranial bionic implant that activates
    upon the wearer's death.  It is loved by terrorists.

    Yautja usually outfit themselves with such a device too.
    They use it to protect their technology and whenever they
    are dying but are too wounded to commit "proper" suicide.

kObj::HealthMonitor - health monitor
    The health monitor does what its name suggests - keeps
    constantly checking your health.  It is not unheard of
    to perish in battle because in amok one disregarded
    one's wounds until the organism gave up and it was too
    late to prevent death.  The monitor will make you more
    aware of your health status.  It also can tell you how
    much rads your body has taken.

kObj::MechaDendrites - set of mecha-dendrites
    Mecha-dendrites look like metallic tentacles.  They connect
    directly to your brain and are controlled via thought.  This
    is very handy for manipulating fine objects and interfacing
    with computers in a more direct way.  This is helpful for
    repairing items and picking electronic locks.
    
    To benefit from the enhanced computer interface you need to
    know at least a bit about programming.  Electronic lock
    picking has analogical skill requirement.

    Due to their very close connection to the brain the mecha-
    -dendrites disrupt psionic aura more than an ordinary cranial
    implant.

    Another impediment to using mecha-dendrites is they stick
    out from the back of your skull.  This makes them incompatible
    with sealed helmets.  On the other hand they can be installed
    and removed even if present compatible helmet is buggy.

kObj::MotoricCoordinator - motoric coordinator
    This implant intercepts neural communication between
    the main motor centers of the brain and major sensory
    processing regions.  Thanks to selective filtering of
    emitted impulses hand-eye coordination improves and
    movements become steadier without sacrificing speed
    of reactions.

kObj::Narcoleptor - narcoleptor
    To perform complex surgery or operations on patient it
    is needed to aenesthetize him or her.  A narcoleptor is
    a brain implant which takes care of this requirement.
    It administers exactly the required dosage of the
    aenesthetizer using biological information gathered
    from the body itself.  The narcoleptor is greatly lowering
    the risk of the patient not waking up after a successful
    operation.

    Usually it is in blocked state so that a patient in a fit
    of epilepsy cannot cause it to uninstall accidentally.

kObj::LockPickSkillsoft - pick locks skillsoft
    Of all the skillsofts available to general populace this one
    is outlawed and you may receive a free one-way ticket to jail
    for mere possession of it.

    Main function of the skillsoft is providing you with diagrams
    of common and uncommon electronic locks but you can also find
    many tips on how to place your hand or how to move your fingers
    in order to maximize your chances of success.  There are few
    methods to update data in this implant but they are seldom
    known to protect would be providers of such sensitive data.
    However, even with its current wealth it could prove very
    useful even if you did not intend to update it anytime soon.

    Implant quality:  buggy dbgd optmd
    Skill bonus:       +0    +3   +6

kObj::PoisonResistor - poison resistor
    This astounding piece of wetware is the command center for
    a veritable army of nanite-controlled active coal pellets.
    They patrol the bloodstream and are sent wherever a harmful
    chemical enters the body.  They absorb the chemical then
    collected in the implant for safe breakdown of the toxins.

kObj::PsiAmp - psionic amplifier
    This implant reads and analyzes the user's brainwave pattern.
    Where disturbances are found it uses a self-arranging fractal
    tree of metacreative pseudocrystals to reinstate the user's
    natural metacognitive field.  When no disturbances are found
    it simply reinforces the existing brainwaves.

kObj::RadiationProcessor - radiation processor
    This implant constantly monitors tissues for evidences of
    radiological damage.  When any are found it selectively
    unlocks chemical pathways for nitrous oxide at the cellular
    level.  The damaged DNA can then be repaired and cellular
    function resumed.  It is known to cause erectile dysfunction
    above a certain threshold but that's a minor annoyance when
    compared to lethal radiation poisoning.

kObj::ReflexCoordinator - reflex coordinator
    This implant hijacks the main motor centers of the brain
    and takes up the brunt of their workload.  Prioritizing
    fast movements and optimizing electrochemical signals,
    this increases the number of primitive motions per second
    the user is able to complete.

kObj::RepairSkillsoft - repair skillsoft
    The crown jewel of the Federation of Engineer Unions; this
    implant stores more bolt measures, cabling layouts and
    servomotor torque specifications than you'd need to consult
    in your entire life.  To circumvent the limitations on
    including information about proprietary standards from
    other companies, the database is not run by the FEU but as
    a non-profit open source project by the implant users.

    Additionally, the database isn't accessed online but stored
    in the implant itself and regularly updated.  Unlike that
    piece of shit those ASR wankers distribute, the repair
    skillsoft is fully useful even in the event of a warpnet
    blackout.

    Implant quality:  buggy dbgd optmd
    Skill bonus:       +0    +4   +8

kObj::SearchSkillsoft - search skillsoft
    This implant links up to the Architecture Standards and
    Regulations database and interfaces with various visual centers
    in the brain.  It analyzes the user's field of view and highlights
    any non-ASR-compliant structures.  Originally intended only for
    ASR facility inspectors, second-hand implants have found wide use
    by lazy undergraduate architects and some outlaw scumbags.

    It sports one of the quickest warpnet connections.  Unlike that
    prehistoric garbage used by those cavemen back at the FEU, this
    implant is able to talk with the centralized database server
    using state-of-the-art proprietary protocols.

    Implant quality:  buggy dbgd optmd
    Skill bonus:       +0    +4   +8

kObj::SpotSkillsoft - spot skillsoft
    The spot skillsoft can aid you in two ways that differ significantly
    in application but have common purpose.  First thanks to interfacing
    with visual cortex it heightens your perceptiveness of unusual
    patterns in environment.  Next utilizing interface to hippocampus
    it can temporarily block some visual memories giving you a new look
    at what you already subconsciously treated as familiar.

    The second ability is limited by left doses of stimulating chemical
    that is released to suppress selected brain parts.

    The twofold working of this implant means it is slightly less
    effective at augmenting effective spotting skill.

    Implant quality:  buggy dbgd optmd
    Skill bonus:       +0    +3   +6

kObj::TissueRegenerator - tissue regenerator
    Cell mitosis marches at steady pace since individual organism
    has reached maturity but at genetic level fast cell multiplication
    is still possible.  This implant collects pain information from
    nerves to identify wounded tissues and produces additional growth
    hormones specifically tailored to regenerating them.
    
    The bionic implant has gain worldwide approval by militaries,
    health organizations and wealthier individuals.  In spite of well
    deserved fame it has two drawbacks.  First, regenerating people
    get hungry faster.  This seldom constitutes a problem.  However,
    the second side effect is subtler and puts a serious damper on
    popularity of the tissue regenerator.  Patients suffering many
    wounds over longer periods of time seem to age faster.  Several
    government science departments have quantified this effect but
    so far results have not been disclosed.

kObj::Torc - torc
    :all
    This is a rigid, ring-shaped choker of elven manufacture.

    They are used by space elf strains that are not psychically
    active by nature.  They grant an artificial form of telepathy.

    :golden torc
    This one functions as a powerful amplifier for the user's
    psychic powers, while also shielding him or her against
    psionic influence from wearers of lesser torcs.

    A golden torc is the sign of full acceptance inside a
    torc-using sociey, and a much sought after artifact by
    operants outside them.

    :silver torc
    This one amplifies the wearer's psychic powers and acts
    as a ward against psychic influence from grey torc wearers.
    It also nullifies the meta-psychic sway held against those
    torced with gold.

    It is usually granted to alien members of an elven society
    as part of a customary trial period.

    :gray torc
    The purpose of gray torcs is to keep undesirable and
    maverick elements in check inside an elven society.  While
    it can bring a limited benefit to the meta-psychically
    unfit as a telepathic aid, it makes operants unable to
    stand against any wearer of a greater torc.

    It is regarded as an unmistakable mark of servitude.

    :all
    A torc becomes integrated with the mind of the user.
    Voluntarily removing one is an unthinkable act that damages
    both wearer and the device.

kObj::Ungooma - Ungooma
    The Ungooma are a species of adaptive-intelligence beings that
    evolved as thought-parasites and later developed their own means
    of thinking.

        [ Ascendancy, developed by The Logic Factory ]

    Ungooma are race of brain parasites capable of forming hive-minds
    and overtaking their hosts in sufficient quantities.  For an
    average humanoid being five are needed to fully dominate host's
    will unless the person posesses less than average intelligence.
    Then four are enough for wresting consciousness.

    The parasite feeds on host's neurotransmitters, disrupting mental
    processes.  Several documented experiments confirm that taking
    good care about the parasite makes it complacent, leading to lesser
    strain on brain functions.  This is often beneficial because it
    allows patient to lead normal life until surgery can be performed.
    Surgery is a must, because Ungooma is not going to willingly leave
    its feeding ground.

    On the other hand Ungooma tend to be protective of their sustainer.
    Usually they will try to shield the bearer from mental assaults,
    often dying in the process.

kObj::WarpStabilizer - warp stabilizer
    Stabilizing transportations depends on many environment traits.
    Functionality of this implant is similar in that regard.  To work
    best it has both to be optimized and have high enhancement value.

    Transport control chance is modified by:
      3% per enhancement point when buggy
      6% per enhancement point when debugged
      9% per enhancement point when optimized

#CANISTERS

#kObj::GenericCanister - canister
#   A canister is a container, usually for some sort of liquid.  You
#   can quaff (drink) it or apply it (pour it on something).  You may
#   pour the contents on monsters, on the ground or into a vat or pit.
#   Also there is the possiblity of splashing its contents on a wall
#   or on whatever else you desire.
#
#   Pouring into a vat is especially noteworthy because observing
#   the effects the canister has on sludge often gives you a clue
#   about the contents of the container.  If liquid happens to be
#   harmful, well, better let the sludge take a hit.
#
#   Spilling on monsters is useful when the canister holds something
#   dangerous you would prefer not to drink yourself.  You may wish
#   to throw the canister if the contents are unstable but there is
#   the associated risk of missing the intended target.
#
#   Another use of canisters is for loading empty ray guns.  Keep
#   in mind that filling the precious tool with beer or something
#   like that will just ruin it.
#
#   Finally, a piece of advice.  Do not drink canisters with a death
#   symbol on the side.  It will kill you, honest.  The symbol is
#   there for a reason.

kObj::Antimatter - canister of antimatter
    It is difficult to seal antimatter inside a container
    made of matter but modern science has managed to do it.
    The canister is packed with self sustaining generators 
    maintaining repulsor field which prevents particles
    of matter from ever colliding with volatile antimatter.

    Should even the generators be disrupted the result will
    be a violent outburst of annihilation field.  Handle
    with extreme care!  Trained personnel only.

kObj::Brain - brain cylinder
    There was a harmless way to extract a brain, and a way to keep
    the organic residue alive during its absence.  The bare, compact
    cerebral matter was then immersed in an occasionally replenished
    fluid within an ether-tight cylinder of a metal mined in Yuggoth,
    certain electrodes reaching through and connecting at will with
    elaborate instruments capable of duplicating the three vital
    faculties of sight, hearing, and speech.  For the winged fungus-
    -beings to carry the brain-cylinders intact through space was an
    easy matter.  Then, on every planet covered by their civilisation,
    they would find plenty of adjustable faculty-instruments capable
    of being connected with the encased brains; so that after a
    little fitting these travelling intelligences could be given
    a full sensory and articulate life - albeit a bodiless and
    mechanical one - at each stage of their journeying through and
    beyond the space-time continuum.  It was as simple as carrying a
    phonograph record about and playing it wherever a phonograph of
    corresponding make exists.  Of its success there could be no
    question.  Akeley was not afraid.  Had it not been brilliantly
    accomplished again and again?

kObj::Beer - canister of beer
         ____________________
      =<|                    |<<
      =<| BELTER BOOTLEGGERS |<<
      =<|     Est. 2256      |<<
      =<|____________________|<<

    This lager is brewed following
    the traditional recipe of the
    uranium miners in Ceres using
    the same barley variety grown
      and cared for by miner
      families since Ceres
      attained its independence.

      Enjoy Belter Bootleggers.
    Support the Belt Commonwealth.

             33 cl. 12'

kObj::B3 - canister of Bouncy Bubbly Beverage
    Bouncy Bubbly Beverage is a carbonated drink and is the mandatory
    beverage of choice in Alpha Complex.

    Known to give an instant boost in energy, B3 is the preferred
    drink of Troubleshooters and other citizens who need a quick lift
    and haven't got time to consider the medical consequences.  Made
    from a mixture of caffeine, sugar, acid and amphetamines, the
    exact formula for B3 is a closely guarded secret known just to
    a handful of ULTRAVIOLETs.

    Some Troubleshooters have taken to adapting a can of B3 as
    a weapon, as when well shaken, it will explode violently when
    thrown at a CMT.

    Rumors that B3 causes various side-effects, including uncontrollable
    twitching, the shakes and psychosis, are, of course, treason.

    Comes in Original, New! Improved! and Recaffeinated Lite flavors.

        [ Paranoia wiki at www.paranoia-live.net ]

kObj::CannedEmbryo - canned alien embryo
    This appears to be a hermetically sealed laboratory receptacle
    for storage of dangerous biological samples.  Whether the brown,
    rugged and veiny outgrowth is a sign of contamination, or has been
    intentionally induced as a further security measure to keep the
    lifeform in it's interior dormant, is difficult to ascertain.

kObj::FullHealingCanister - canister of full healing
    The deluxe version of healing serum.  It is more concentrated
    and packs a small dose of flesh-mending nanomachines giving
    it that edge you will need in those messy battles you should
    have avoided.

kObj::GainAbilityCanister - canister of gain ability
    This is what happens when a rogue biotechnologist
    removes the therapeutical limitations from the
    nanomachines in restoration serum.  The stem cells
    no longer stick themselves to damaged tissues but
    rather get all over the place.  Affected organs
    are augmented whether damaged or healthy.
    
    An uncommon but proven true occurence is to have
    most of the nanomachines penerate the brain-blood
    barrier.  Infrequently people who had this happen
    to them reported regaining old memories.  This
    could be explained by additional neuron connections
    forming bridges to areas of brain that were not
    used regularly in the past and became inaccessible.

kObj::HealingCanister - canister of healing
    This slightly translucent suspension is a potent mixture
    of painkillers, coagulants and metabolism accelerators.
    It will allow any living organism to recover from any
    annoying-to-medium injuries.

kObj::LNO - canister of liquid nitrogen
    This canister is filled with well known
    refrigerant.  It is certainly not meant
    for drinking.  Also, throwing this
    container is unadvised because nitrogen
    has great liquid to gas expansion ratio.

kObj::MutagenCanister - canister of mutagen
    God knows where this revolting gunk came from.
    Probably some less than scrupulous waste disposal facility.

    It's green, glowing and disturbingly... alive?

    Probably radioactive too.  Have protection or ensure the
    container is optimized to avoid contaminating surroundings.
    If possible put this in a lead box.

kObj::NanoCola - canister of Nano-Cola
    Designed as healthy substitute for Bouncy Bubbly Beverage by
    the Psion society Nano-Cola became de facto preferred drink
    of mutants.  Unlike the former product it has no side effects
    and has its formula publicly known.  Even people who have no
    use for its invigorating efect on psionic capabilities often
    prefer it over BBB because it is much healthier.

kObj::Napalm - canister of napalm
    Highly flammable liquid suitable as fuel for ray guns.
    Do not breach the container - explosion risk.

kObj::NukaCola - canister of Nuka-Cola
    Nuka-Cola was the most popular flavored soft drink in the
    United States before the Great War.  Even after the War,
    Nuka-Cola remains the most popular soft drink of the
    post-nuclear world, as much of it was preserved in a
    relatively pristine state, although it tends to be warm,
    irradiated and flat.

        [ The Vault at www.falloutwiki.com ]

kObj::PlasmaCanister - canister of plasma
    This canister is a powered magnetic bottle, full of
    weapons-grade plasma. It comes with a thermo-resistant
    injecting nozzle for easy loading into any device.

kObj::PoisonCanister - canister of poison
    CAUTION: poison hazard.

kObj::RadAway - canister of RadAway
    RadAway is an intravenous chemical solution that bonds
    with radiation particles and passes out of your system.
    It takes time to work, and is also a potent diuretic.
    It cannot be used to keep radiation away when entering
    radioactive areas like Rad-X.  Instead it is used after
    receiving radiation to help cleanse the body.

    It has several adverse effects, most notably headaches,
    stomach pains, and hair loss.

        [ The Vault at www.falloutwiki.com ]

kObj::RestorationCanister - canister of restoration
    This silvery colloid is, in fact, a nanomechanical stem cell
    delivery method able to heal damage done to specialized tissues.

kObj::SithGravy - Sith alchemical gravy
    One of the least known activities of the Sith was the research on
    what they termed "alchemy", which largely boils down to chemistry,
    biochemistry and materials science under the influence of the dark
    side of the Force and wrapped in a great deal of mysticism.

    Almost all of the so-called "Sith alchemy" was conducted in utmost
    secrecy, with only the barest basics being passed down from master
    to disciple.

    As with any other activities pursued by the Sith, the goals of this
    research can be summed up in these guidelines: Obtaining and holding
    a position of power, prolongation of life expectancy, and total
    control of disciples.

    Sith methods are guaranteed to be underhanded, double-edged and
    sanity challenging, which means any sith artifacts are better left
    untouched as museum pieces.

kObj::SpeedCanister - canister of speed
    Using all natural ingredients, this pill is supposed to
    improve a persons movement speed by up to 50%.

        [ Zeno Zip pill from Deadcold roguelike by Joseph Hewitt ]

    This drink is based on Zeno Zip mark II formula.  It can double
    movement and reaction speed for respectable amount of time
    without bringing adverse health effects.

kObj::SpiceMelange - canister of spice melange
    The Spice Melange, commonly referred to simply as 'the spice',
    was a naturally produced awareness spectrum narcotic that formed
    a fundamental block of commerce and technological development in
    the known universe for millennia.  It also played an important
    role in travel and cultural development.

        [ Dune wiki at dune.wikia.com ]

    Bene Gesserit reverend mothers can control their own biology and
    metabolism but are reliant on spice for this.  It is said any
    mortal could gain some control over one's body cells until
    effects of Melange wane.

    It was not proven to be related but there have been reports that
    Melange may aid help one to learn to use the Voice employed by
    Bene Gesserit order if it is consumed while being commanded
    by a reverend mother.

kObj::SuperGlue - canister of super glue
                               SUPER GLUE!

            It glues plass, cerametal, decamole, wraithbone,
             plasteel, hyperalloy and naquadah IN SECONDS!

                             Instructions:
    1.  Clean the surfaces of grease and ambient dust before application
    2.  Coat the surfaces with a small amount of SUPER GLUE!
    3.  Wait for two or three seconds.
    4.  Press the surfaces firmly together for ten seconds.

                                WARNING:
        Do not ingest, inject, snort or smoke.  It glues skin, flesh,
       mucoses, nails, hair, claws and polysaccharide exoskeletons in
        seconds as well.  Do not leave within the reach of children.
               Toxic and irritant.  Contains cyanoacrylate.

kObj::Water - canister of water
    You could drink it if you're very thirsty.
    Me, I'd prefer some good beverage.

#RAY GUNS

kObj::RayGunPreamble - ray gun preamble
    This stylish device represents the pinnacle of handheld
    weaponry.  Designed by an elder race long since disappeared.
    It can do all sorts of wonderful things.

kObj::UnknownRayGun - unidentified ray gun
    It could shrink your dogbot to the size of a pea,
    turn an item into solid gold or transmogrify you
    into a beautiful Arcturian woman.  Who knows?

kObj::EmptyRayGun - empty ray gun
    When it's loaded, of course.

kObj::FreezeRayGun - freeze ray gun
    Like freezing your enemies dead, or nearly so.  Mmm, popsicle.

kObj::DisintegrationRayGun - disintegration ray gun
    Such as projecting a stream of the deadliest substance
    in the universe.  Actually it makes the ray gun unstable.
    Treat it like fragile object.

kObj::HeatRayGun - heat ray gun
    Melting, burning, boiling, roasting and barbecuing all
    fall under the domain of this ray gun.

kObj::GaussRayGun - gauss ray gun
    This one will make short work of any electrical device.

kObj::PoisonRayGun - poison ray gun
    Crippling your enemies with insidious poison rays
    that sap their vital energies is pretty wonderful,
    but watch your karma meter.

kObj::GammaRayGun - gamma ray gun
    If you're the kind of sadist who thinks that showering
    people with hard radiation is a wonderful thing.

    Note this item is bombarding you with unstable isotopes
    while you carry it.

kObj::StasisRayGun - stasis ray gun
    It stops your enemies dead.  In their tracks, that is.

kObj::TransporterRayGun - transporter ray gun
    Now you see them, now you don't!
    It's MACROSCOPIC QUANTUM TUNNELING! - That is, MAGIC!

kObj::HealingRayGun - healing ray gun
    This one projects low-voltage harmonic currents
    that stimulate the rate of cell regeneration.

kObj::RestorationRayGun - restoration ray gun
    This one projects enhanced harmonic electrical currents
    that stimulate the regeneration of specialized tissues
    that wouldn't otherwise heal themselves.

kObj::AccelerationRayGun - acceleration ray gun
    You can get out a short burst of speed out of this one.
    Invaluable when that alien warrior insists on making
    a delicious meal out of your juicy intestines.

kObj::DecelerationRayGun - deceleration ray gun
    Zap yourself with it and you'll become slow like a turtle
    in the morning.  For a while at least.  So, maybe zap
    someone else for fun instead.

kObj::AugmentationRayGun - augmentation ray gun
    Zap for instant general fitness improvement.  Really works!

kObj::DecontaminationRayGun - decontamination ray gun
    Like stabilizing radioactive isotopes in living organisms.

kObj::SquirtRayGun - squirt ray gun
    Not this one though.

#JUMPSUITS

kObj::AsbestosJumpsuit - asbestos jumpsuit
    A relic from times of USENET, this
    jumpsuit was worn to flame wars.

kObj::ChameleonSuit - chameleon jumpsuit
    While you wear this jumpsuit and nothing over it you
    will blend in with nearby walls and solid obstacles.
    This gives you good camouflage but the sight blocking
    terrain feature has to be in one of four cardinal
    directions.  A single such surface suffices.

    Keeping to unlit spaces will also allow you to remain
    hidden.

    The camouflage is no invisibility.  Once someone spots
    you they can track you without much trouble.  Creatures
    with scent may also pick up your trail if you sneak
    close to them.

kObj::ElvenJumpsuit - elven jumpsuit
    This is a finely crafted biofiber jumpsuit, pink in color.
    On the item there is an image of a stylized dragon in dark
    green plas-silk and an image of a square infinity symbol in
    dark green plas-silk.  It is adorned with rings of wraithbone.

kObj::JanitorUniform - janitor uniform
    This is the uniform of a civilian janitor on board a "Federation"
    star ship, it is for janitors that fail to make it into the
    Sanitation Engineering Corps.  It has a black belt and gray boots.
    A blue StarCon emblem is on the left breast.

        [ Space Quest Omnipedia at spacequest.wikia.com ]

kObj::RadiationSuit - radiation suit
    Protection afforded by the radiation suit is enough to take
    a person through the hazard of environmental radiation just
    fine.  Against radiological weaponry or rad traps it is only
    partly effective.

kObj::OrdinaryJumpsuit - ordinary jumpsuit
    A plain jumpsuit.

#BODY ARMOR

kObj::PlateArmor - plate armor
    The plate armor varies in appearance.  Most Predators wear a breastplate
    which does not cover the midsection.  It is made of a very durable metal
    able to stop bullets as well as delay the corrosive effect of xenomorph
    blood long enough for it to be taken off.  The plating is made of several
    layers, resulting in better durability.

    This armor offers protection where the Yautja need it the most.  Light
    and maneuverable, it is still vulnerable to heavy strikes.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

kObj::ReflecSuit - suit of reflec armor
    A standard issue armor given to team members sent on an assignment.
    Lasers of various kinds and powers are common life-ending threat
    (not counting his or her own stupidity) in Troubleshooter's life
    making wearing something that can deflect them a very good idea.

kObj::SpaceSuit - space suit
    A light space suit.  It can protect its wearer against hard vacuum.

        [ Deadcold roguelike by Joseph Hewitt ]

kObj::StormtrooperSuit - stormtrooper suit
    Stormtrooper armor was a distinctive white plastoid body armor.
    The complete set of eighteen pieces completely encased the body
    and typically had no individually distinguishing marking outside
    of rank.  The casual first-time observer sometimes mistook the
    Stormtroopers as a form of battle droid.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    It is also known that the stormtrooper armor was designed to
    withstand harsh environmental conditions.  You may count on it
    to resist corrosion.  Fine armor if it only was not so heavy.

kObj::TeslaSuit - suit of tesla armor
    A shiny suit built on principle of Faraday cage that can protect
    you from deadly electrical discharges.  It has fixed capacity but
    its ability to absorb incoming shock varies with armor quality.
    Installed batteries store intercepted energy and can be used to
    power your guns to respond to whatever shocked you with laser fire.

kObj::ShockCapacitor - shock capacitor
    Shock capacitor is a bionic implant designed to absorb
    electrical currents running through your body before
    they do lethal damage.  Optimization is required for
    it to reach full capacity as well as highest absorption
    factor.  When internal batteries are full the implant
    will fail to lessen any more electrical discharges
    until these are emptied.

    Buggy charged shock capacitors are great way to have
    your gray matter fried.

kObj::BrotherhoodPA - brotherhood power armor
    This old and worn suit of power armor is a relic from earth times.
    Since it was manufactured before the age of interstellar travel
    it was made using only the crude earth-bound materials available
    at the time.  As such, it affords less protection than modern
    power armor but uses heavy-duty pistons for limb strength
    enhancement.

    Due to the rather unpleasant political climate of the era it was
    built with the hazards of radiation in mind.  It sports a generous
    lead lining.

kObj::ElvenCA - elven combat armor
    This lightweight armor of elven manufacture bears some strange
    marks that suggest it has been used by some fleet of foot soldier.

    It's made of some sort of strange organic material, its grain
    following the curves of the armor pieces.

kObj::ElvenEA - elven exarch armor
    This is an exceptional elven suit of armor.  On the chest plate
    is an image of a heart over a stylized chalice, the symbol of
    an elven Craftworld.  It menaces with spikes of wraithbone.

kObj::AsbestosJacket - abestos jacket
    Heavy and somewhat cumbersome the asbestos
    jacket is designed to protect you from fiery
    hazards.  A firefighter would prefer something
    lighter for his day job.  However, a firefighter
    doesn't need to wear armor or to watch out for
    carnivorous plants.  This is why the asbestos
    jacket is useful.  It combines modest protection
    from fire with considerable stopping power.

kObj::FlakJacket - flak jacket
    Standard issue armored jacket.  Its virtue is not identifying
    wearer with any kind of militaristic faction despite quite good
    bullet stopping power.

kObj::KevlarJacket - kevlar jacket
    Created from old material known as kevlar the jacket
    is still popular today because it is cheap to produce
    and offers the same protection as ubiqutous flak jackets.
    Moreover it provides additional stopping power against
    bullets and other piercing hazards.  The kevlar jacket
    has fallen out of fashion somewhat because of its greater
    weight but is still appreciated.

kObj::TransparentJacket - transparent jacket
    In some planetary governments where law was not well developed nudists
    used to wear this to comply with regulations.  Wherever this pull was
    successful local authorities quickly amended the law to read that a body
    needs to be covered by non-transparent clothing articles to maintain
    required modesty levels.

kObj::BioArmor - reticulan bio armor
    Reticulan bio armors are organically grown plants which thrive
    on solar energy and body heat.  Their genetic code contains built-in
    nastic movements to envelop a humanoid body tightly to contain heat
    and build a weak symbiotic bond.  If someone were to wear the bio
    armor without a jumpsuit underneath as most reticulans do it would
    influence the organism of the wearer to regenerate faster by
    releasing beneficial substances that can be absorbed through skin.

kObj::MBioArmor0 - mutated bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    This bio armor has developed a mutation causing it to constantly
    produce a certain radioactive isotopes which it is unharmed by.

kObj::MBioArmor1 - pulsating bio armor
    *REF:mutated bio armor

    The mutation of this bio armor has progressed giving it some
    resistance to toxins, corrosion and greater resilience against
    microbes which it shares with the wearer.

kObj::MBioArmor2 - glistening bio armor
    *REF:mutated bio armor

    The mutation of this bio armor has progressed allowing it to
    be a better symbiote.  When worn it enhances abilities of its
    host.

kObj::EBioArmor1 - tough bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    Once in a while someone experiments with the bio armor to give
    it more endurance and stopping power.  This tough looking
    natural armor proves at least of some of those attempts result
    in tangible improvements.

kObj::EBioArmor2 - vigorous bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    Reticulan hobbyist geneticist are known for tampering with genetic
    code of bio armors.  Symbiotic bond with this variety enhances
    wearer's speed and agility a bit.

kObj::EBioArmor3 - psionic bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    Reticulan masterminds prefer their armor to be a psychoconductor.
    Well, this one is a good stab at the task especially because it is
    a semipsychoconductor - helps the host engage in psychic activities
    while also dampening harmful incoming psychic impulses to a small
    but noticeable degree.

kObj::SBioArmor1 - bio carapace
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    Wow, look at this one.  No longer a plant-like flesh bag it resembles
    a crustacean carapace.  Able to stop a bullet from weaker pistols,
    thinly concentrated shrapnel, light radiation and soften blows the
    bio carapace leaves few things to be desired in armor piece.

kObj::SBioArmor2 - receptive bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    At first this appears to be regular reticulan bio armor but upon
    closer inspection it seems to be able to sustain much greater
    degrees of enhancement.

kObj::SBioArmor3 - zesty bio armor
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    When a task of improving on bio armor is taken by a professional
    in plant genetics this happens.  Zesty bio armor speeds up its
    wearer significantly and improves combat accuracy on top of it.

kObj::SBioArmor4 - sentient bio mass
    *REF:reticulan bio armor

    A dream aide of any reticulan mastermind, but to make this one happen
    one had to team up with dissidents because only they are willing to
    create something with mind of its own, even if not exactly intelligent.

#HEAD ARMOR

kObj::BioMask - bio-mask
    The bio-mask is one of the main tools used by the Predators.  These
    masks contain a variety of functions which the Yautja may require
    during a hunt.  As well as protecting the Predator's head, the mask
    has a sound amplifier, multiple vision modes, a zoom function, some
    diagnostic capabilities and a recording system.  The mask may also
    have a red targeting laser, used by a Predator for accurate plasma
    caster shots.  It also might be used as a breathing tool.

    The masks are known to have access to several different visual
    frequencies.  Most commonly seen mode is infrared, effective to
    control the humans, but useless in a Xenomorph hunt.  Also available
    is a spectrum and a specifically tuned mode, EM field detector, used
    to visualize Xenomorphs.

    Another feature of the Predator's mask is its voice translator/recorder.
    This device can both record and play strips of audio, which a Predator
    may use to express meaning or catch prey off guard, or to simply listen
    to the voices of their prey, as if to study their language.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

kObj::BrainShield - brain shield
    "The Illuminati were scanning my brain,
     but not since I got this tinfoil hat!"

    The number one fashion accessory for unemployed
    conspiracy theorists around the world.  It is
    rumored that it can protect from mind reading
    rays, mind blasts and mind control attempts.
    Funny thing, it actually works in that respect.

kObj::FootballHelmet - football helmet
    Faster-than-light travel and post-nuclear power sources not only bring
    about interstellar commerce and untold scientific leaps.  With them also
    come threats of destruction on a astronomical scale, and power-hungry
    alien overlords that would leave a certain twentieth century warlord
    to shame.  Unless he had a jetpack. 

    But I digress.  The case in point is that after the defeat of the Shikadi
    Cabal under orders of the Grand Intellect, the humble and even backwards
    "football helmet" somehow became a Mark of the True Galactic Hero, drawing
    power from the bottomless well of human collective unconscious. 

    If you are kind enough not to fall asleep and pay attention to these
    carefully crafted and COMPLETELY SCIENTIFIC slideshows, your eyes shall
    bear witness to the statistical truth of the effectiveness of the Football
    Helmet and other obscure, assorted heroic paraphernalia. 

    Jeremiah Chord, "Heros of the Galactic Age: Unconscious Empowerment under
    Statistical Analysis" (Speech held at the annual meeting of the Martian
    Society for Study of Suboperant Phenomena, Olympus City, 2086)

kObj::PrussianHelmet - incongruously prussian helmet
    "Most of the recurring designs found in space orc populations occur
    independently, at fairly consistent intervals of their technical and
    economic growth. Xenologists at large agree that these recurring designs
    and the drive to implement them are hard-coded into the orcish genetic
    code. The question remains, however, whether the space orc genome has any
    means to encode new technical acquisitions or is it limited to bringing
    back to life old preset designs simply as a shortcut to planetary conquest.

    As such, this helmet is often dismissed as a bizarre coincidence of
    convergent design, but some fringe xenohistorians hold the claim that this
    controversial helmet design found a way from Earth to an orcish settlement
    and its design was preserved in orcish DNA; or conversely, that the design
    of the historical prussian helmet was actually derived from an orcish
    artifact of unknown provenance."

      Winfred McBoogan "Lectures on pre-spaceflight extraterrestrial contact"
      Unified Solar Press, Earth, 2231.

kObj::SpaceHelmet - space helmet
    A fully enclosed helmet with an incorporated air scrubber.
    It protects very effectively against intense light.

kObj::StormtrooperHelmet - stormtrooper helmet
    Stormtrooper helmets consisted of four-layer construction.
    The outer layer was made of plastoid composite armor, the
    next layer was an anti-blaster mesh, followed by magnetic
    shielding and finally an inner insulator.  Cellular padding
    helped prevent head injury.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    Unfortunately the helmets have faulty visual systems,
    resulting in hampered aim of the wearer.  To make matters
    worse the helmet's visors are too small, further hindering
    the wearer's sight.

kObj::EnergyDome - energy dome
    It was designed according to ancient ziggurat mound proportions
    used in votive worship.  Like the mounds, it collects energy and
    recirculates it.  In this case the Dome collects energy that
    escapes from the crown of the human head and pushes it back into
    the Medula Oblongata for increased mental energy.  It is very
    important that you buy a cheap plastic hardhat liner, adjust it
    to your head size and affix it with duct tape or Super Glue to
    the inside of the Dome.  This allows the Dome to "float" just
    above the cranium and thus do its job.  Unfortunately, sans hard
    hat liner, the recirculation of energy WILL NOT occur.

          [ clubdevo.com, Gerald Casale ]

kObj::HarmonyDome - harmony dome
    It looks like half a sphere with an antenna at the center.
    If you look at it under the light it reveals a strange web
    of circuits inside the material.

    Harmony dome is designed to remove the negative impact of
    bionic cranial implants on the wearer's psionic aura.  It
    works by reharmonizing the brain waves disrupted by
    injecting a physical object so close to the gray matter.

    With or without implants be sure this object is in pristine
    condition or be prepared to suffer aura dispersal.

kObj::BrotherhoodPH - brotherhood power helmet
    This ancient power helmet speaks of a bygone era.  Crude and
    practical, it is clearly a product of an all-out-war economy.
    Especially when you notice the exquisite radiation shielding
    in the otherwise brutish design.
    
    The helmet features an integrated flashlight.

kObj::ElvenCH - elven combat helmet
    This pointy featherweight helmet has a flat enigmatic faceplate
    and separate mean-looking visors.  Quite intimidating except it
    is colored *pink*.  At least it's airtight.

kObj::ElvenEH - elven exarch helmet
    This is a masterwork elven helmet.  Over the faceplate is an image
    of a triangle on top of a cross, a symbol of an elven warrior
    society.  It is adorned with cabochons of polished wraithstone.

kObj::KevlarHelmet - kevlar helmet
    Designed with one purpose in mind - preventing
    enemy soldiers from killing you by sending
    a single bullet into your head.  Considering
    how ineffective materials were at disposal of
    designers a parameter of this headwear had to
    suffer.  As a consequence this helmet is
    remarkably heavy.

    Admittedly it does provide some added protection
    against piercing projectiles, but this is only
    provable in a laboratory environment.

#CLOAKS

kObj::AdamantineCloak - adamantine cloak
    An Adamantine Mantle is a Space Marine wargear upgrade.  They are cloaks
    made from threads of Adamantine, a tough and resistant material that can
    provide excellent protection for its wearer.  The cloak often protects
    the wearer from high strength attacks, allowing the wearer to survive
    very heavy firepower which would normally fell any other warrior.

        [ Lexicanum at wh40k.lexicanum.com ]

kObj::BadassTrenchcoat - badass trenchcoat
    A Longcoat is the ideal action-hero garment, more practical than
    a cape but infinitely cooler than a sport coat or no coat.  In
    addition, a Longcoat of any level of 'billowy-ness' makes an ideal
    cover for producing any number of weapons, tools, supplies and
    whatnot.  Certain styles of Longcoat are deliberately designed to
    distort the wearer's frame, making their wearer's access to
    Hammerspace almost believable to mundane eyes.  This distortion of
    the wearer's real shape also makes it genuinely harder to land an
    accurate attack on them.

        [ Television Tropes at tvtropes.org; Badass Longcoat entry ]

kObj::SuperheroCape - superhero cape
    Capes have the obvious effect of making the wearer look larger and more
    imposing.  Thus artists often use them as a way to make characters look
    Badass.  Just look at Batman over there.  He just wouldn't look half as
    awesome without his cape.

        [ Television Tropes at tvtropes.org; Badass Cape entry ]

#WAIST ARMOR

#   Belts differ from other types of armor slightly.  You can
#   force open a buggy belt if you have strength 14.  Armored
#   belt is tougher and requires strength 16 to be opened
#   that way.  Note that forcibly taking off a buggy belt may
#   destroy it.  This happens half the time on average.

kObj::ArmoredBelt - armored belt
    Just a piece of armor.  No special properties.

kObj::CloakingBelt - cloaking belt
    The Cloaking Device or Active Camo is a Yautja hunter's tool.  It warps
    light around the user and projects a hologram of the wall behind it
    over top of the bent light, rendering the user invisible.  This is used
    by Yautja that are hunting prey that shoot back ie. humans, however
    a purely Xenomorph hunt would make the Active Camo next to useless
    because the xenomorphs can still "sense" or "see" the Yautja warrior.

    Despite its advantages, the cloaking device is not perfect.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    Main disadvantage is energy cell consumption rate.  When active the belt
    consumes them faster than a thirsty camel drinks water.  Also creatures
    that can smell will still track the hunter well.  Xenomorphs thanks to
    their sense life ability are never fooled by this.

kObj::EnergyBelt - energy belt
    This belt manufactured by Papa's Power Packs has twenty built in
    tiny containers hidden inside the fabric.  Favored by starship
    mechanics who require little power to sustain their specialized
    tools but are either too weak or too lazy to drag a much heavier
    energy tank with them.  That and carrying energy cells in the open
    just baits static electricity to destroy them depriving you of
    your power source.

kObj::FashionBelt - fashionable belt
    This one seems very pretty and fashionable.  I am sure
    you would look great in it.  Sadly, things they make
    nowadays are good for show only.  These belts usually
    cause a few problems when disrobing due to the hardly
    functional design of the lock.

kObj::ShieldBelt - shield belt
    SHIELD, DEFENSIVE: the protective field produced by a Holtzman generator.
    This field derives from Phase One of the suspensor-nullification effect.
    A shield will permit entry only to objects moving at slow speeds
    (depending on setting, this speed ranges from six to nine centimeters
    per second) and can be shorted out only by a shire-sized electric field.

        [ Terminology of Imperium (1965) by Frank Herbert ]

    The shield belt is a good example of the miniaturization of technology.
    It can create a powerful static field around the wearer that absorbs
    most incoming ranged attacks at the cost of some energy.  If at some
    point enough power is not available to stop incoming object completely
    the shield will fizzle.

    Another great function of the belt is its automatic activation.  When
    you are in distress you can fasten the shield belt and immediately
    enjoy the safety of being surrounded by a force field.  Should you
    wish to temporarily turn it off just push the button.  Beware, this
    part of the belt is very fragile and damaging it may make you unable
    to turn it off.

kObj::StabilizerBelt - stabilizer belt
    Used by marines for bracing Smartgun rifles.  By dampening recoil
    it allows for greater accuracy with heavy weapons.  Also, carrying
    around larger amounts of equipment is slightly easier.

kObj::SuspensorBelt - suspensor belt
    Bring in that floating fat man, the Baron! 

        -- Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV
        [ Dune, 1984.  Directed and written by David Lynch. ]

    Four devices utilizing secondary phase of Holtzmann effect field
    generator are installed in this belt.  The field can dampen gravity
    to some extent allowing wearer to carry greater load of equipment.
    Or flesh.
    
#FEET ARMOR

kObj::SpaceBoots - pair of space boots
    A pair of heavy boots with magnetic soles.
    They are designed to connect to a vacuum suit.

        [ Deadcold roguelike by Joseph Hewitt ]

kObj::StormtrooperBoots - pair of stormtrooper boots
    The boots of stormtrooper armor seem to be the least faulty
    piece of their equipment.  Although they are pretty heavy
    compared to other types of boots their only other major flaw
    is their exterior is made of plastoid and cannot withstand
    prolonged exposure to great heat.

kObj::SturdyBoots - pair of sturdy boots
    Keeps your feet warm but otherwise does not protect
    you against harm unless enhanced.

kObj::JumpBoots - pair of jump boots
    These boots allow you to quickly jump out of a pit.

#EYEWEAR

kObj::Blindfold - blindfold
    This piece of cloth has been weaved from special
    material that will assure even mutants with X-ray
    vision power cannot see through it.

kObj::PerilGlasses - pair of peril-sensitive sunglasses
    Designed to help the wearer develop a relaxed attitude to danger.
    The lenses turn completely black at the first hint of trouble, thus
    preventing the wearer from seeing anything that might alarm him/her.

        [ The restaurant at the End of Universe by Douglas Adams ]

kObj::NVGoggles - pair of night vision goggles
    Night vision goggles are used by armed forces and other military personnel
    to allow the user to see clearly in dark or even pitch-black areas.

    This is another product that does something else than is marketed.
    Commonly used NV goggles work by thermal imaging allowing to spot
    creatures giving off infrared energy in dark areas but not much else.

kObj::ScouterGoggles - pair of scouter goggles
    Original scouter was a monocle traditionally worn over left
    eye.  Newer models cover both eyes but are still two separate
    pieces attached to ears.

    The purpose of scouter is to gauge power level of target.
    Looking at a creature while wearing it allows to see its
    armor class.  Most models will also recognize shielding.

kObj::Sunglasses - pair of sunglasses
    Pair of shades with light detector system that can 
    adjust dim factor to ensure wearer will never be
    blinded or is unable to see through them.

kObj::TargeterGoggles - pair of targeter goggles
    This integrated military eyewear puts aiming crosses
    on all moving objects.  It also places a cross for any
    weapon you wield making it slightly easier to aim at
    your target.  Additionally weak or vulnerable spots
    in armor are highlighted to ensure your attacks can
    be more effective.

kObj::XRayGoggles - pair of x-ray goggles
    The X-Ray goggles enable wearer to see through materials
    not blocking Roentgen rays.  The emitted rays are harmless
    to surroundings.  The range of such sight is quite short
    but still very helpful for would-be thieves that wish to
    know what is behind that locked door with force field
    and alarm.
    
    However, the goggles do contain miniature generator which
    will emit radioactive particles when mistreated or damaged.
    Unsurprisingly X-Ray goggles never come with a warranty.

#WEAPONS

#kObj::AnyWeapon - weapon
#   Weapons are characterized by several factors.
#
#    - Bugginess: optimization grants +2 to hit.  Bugs cause
#      aimed weapons to misfire occasionally.
#    - Range: firing a long range weapon incurs a distance
#      modifier.  The further the target is the lower the
#      modifier.  Shotguns are unique because their spread
#      makes it easier to hit from afar.
#      If range is given as a number the weapon becomes
#      ineffective past that amount of squares.  Beam
#      attacks may exceed the number by 1 to 6 squares.
#    - Damage modifier: affected by enhancement and weapon
#      wear and tear (usually corrosion).
#    - Firing time:  time spent recovering after attacking.
#
#   Using a weapon you have absolutely no skill in incurs
#   a further -2 to hit penalty.

#WEAPONS - THROWN

kObj::SmartDisc - Smart-Disc
    The Smart-Disc (also known simply as the "disc") is an extremely
    sharp circular weapon that is thrown like a discus and returns
    to the user like a boomerang.  It also has a hand grip for use
    as a slashing melee weapon as well.

    This device is capable of cutting through most substances with
    its devastating razor edges, and is powerful enough to cut
    through multiple targets with one throw.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    The Smart-Disc will try to return to your hand once you throw it
    while choosing path with most targets to cut through.  In case a
    tie the choice cannot be reliably predicted.

    However, the target count calculation is made only for first
    bounce-off because the spatial image recognition program has its
    limits.  If you intend the Smart-Disc to hit something on its way
    to your hand you need some luck for the algorithm to pick the
    right return path.

    One more important thing: targets with energy shields are likely
    to interrupt the flight of the Smart-Disc.

#WEAPONS - UNARMED

kObj::BrassKnuckles - brass knuckles
    When your fist does not deliver enough punishment by itself
    anymore use this to gain that extra bit of impact.

kObj::PhaseGloves - pair of phase gloves
    Rip out your foe's still beating heart and crush it!

    The surface of these gloves conducts a special field
    that allows for a certain degree of matter overlapping.
    A revolutionary tool in the hands of a surgeon or
    gravcar repairman and a revolutionary way of ripping
    your lungs out in the hands of your enemies.

kObj::PowerClaw - power claw
    An industrial grade, piston-powered steel pincer,
    haphazardly fitting over a limb.  It is clearly not
    built with any finesse or style in mind, but it can
    probably crush a space elf pretty good.

kObj::PowerFist - power fist
    Marginally more refined than the power claw
    this massive mechanical gauntlet reacts to hand
    movements.  It provides its own vicious strength,
    giving the user a lethal punch.

kObj::PsiBlades - pair of psi blades
    The psi blades are the weapon of the Zealot Protoss caste
    runnning off solely of psionic energy of their wielder.
    They can be used by anyone but other races report the
    blades take a sizeable portion of one's psionic abilities
    and prowess while activated.

kObj::SpikedKnuckles - spiked knuckles
    Set of brass knuckles with three spikes pointing outward.
    Recommended to use when brute force of impact alone is
    no longer satisfying.

kObj::WristBlade - wrist blade
    Wrist blades are the weapon of choice for most Predators.  They are
    retractable, usually twin, serrated blades between six and eighteen
    inches in length and two to eight inches wide.  These deadly weapons
    are sharp enough to cut through bone and are intended for use
    against unarmored combatanants.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

#WEAPONS - MELEE

kObj::AnalProbe - anal probe
    This shiny cylinder, flat at its base and round at the top, is
    an advanced medical tool of reticulan origin.  It can accurately
    measure body temperature, PH and hydration of the mucoses and
    stimuli thresholds in a variety of biological species.  It also
    has several tunable advanced features for optimal performance
    and ease of use including girth and length adjustment, strength
    of vibration (for ultrasound echography) and biogel
    self-lubrication.  All available at a turn or click of the knob
    at the base.

    Reticulans hold health standards very high and dear and are
    always willing to teach other scruffier races the benefits
    of regular medical examinations.

    Engraved on the base is a semi-faded crest of a smiling,
    winking reticulan in a wig and several scratched notches.

kObj::BoStaff - bo staff
    A heavy wooden long staff, traditionally 20/11 meters in size.
    Closely resembles a quarterstaff.

kObj::Club - club
    A heavy, somewhat limb shaped piece of wood.
    But where the hell are the trees?

kObj::Chainsaw - chainsaw
    Chainsaw -- cuts through flesh like a hot knife through butter.

        [ Doom the Roguelike by Kornel Kisielewicz ]

    This model runs off energy cells unlike its counterparts known
    from the gory movies.  It is said the much lower noise levels
    of the engine allow one to derive more sadistic pleasure from
    listening to sounds of flesh and bones being ripped.

kObj::CombatKnife - combat knife
    A combat knife is a piece of terran equipment.  While not suited for
    combat use against many foes, ghosts were trained to wield combat
    knives with deadly precision, sometimes in conjunction with a pistol.

        [ StarCraft wiki at starcraft.wikia.com ]

kObj::CombiStick - combi-stick
    Combi-stick, Combi-spear, "Combat-Staff", (sometimes identified with
    the naginata weapon used by samurai warriors), is an exceedingly sharp
    and resilient weapon used by the Predators.  The Combi-stick is telescopic,
    extended to its full length when used in combat.  It is made of incredible
    material, light but sharp, thin but strong. 

    The Predator receives it when they have finished all of their extremely
    hard training, and have shown themselves ready to begin their first hunt.

    The spear's advantage is that it is extremely fast, well balanced and
    extremely strong.  It is also very easy to throw because it's so light.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    Note that making the combi-stick hit solid obstacle while extending it
    will damage it.  Having the spear optimized reduces the hazard to a chance
    but is still not recommended.  Also, heed this fact:

            If the staff breaks the Yautja takes its own life.

                [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

kObj::ElvenDagger - elven dagger
    The psychic techniques used to make living sessile organisms
    grow into useful patterns were one of the earliest technological
    leaps of the elves, speculated to take place between the first
    taming of animals and the invention of writing.  The first
    material harnessed in this way was wood, and even though through
    the aeons they have developed techniques to shape increasingly
    more complex materials, wood moulding is still the first step
    in learning the technique, used in the manufacture of trade
    goods, and taken up by many an elf as a weekend hobby.

kObj::GomJabbar - Gom Jabbar
    The Gom Jabbar, also known as "the high handed enemy", was
    a meta-cyanide poisoned needle that sat upon a thimble, and
    could be attached to a person's fingertip.

    The origins of the device itself are not clear.  Indeed, the
    origins of its name are also debatable.  The first word, "Gom",
    could stem from the ancient acronym "GOM", which stood for
    "God's Own Medicine", and was often used in the context of
    a drug (particularly opium) or biological chemical on ancient
    Earth.  The second part "Jabbar" comes clearly from the ancient
    Arabic word jabbar, meaning to use coercion to force something.

        [ Dune Wiki at dune.wikia.com ]

kObj::Mop - mop
    "Mommy, how come all the other kids in class get new mops and I don't?"
        --Roger Wilco, hallucinating from thirst on Kerona

        [ Space Quest 1: The Sarien Encounter.  Developed
          by Sierra, designed by Mark Crowe and Scott Murphy ]

kObj::Nunchaku - pair of nunchucks
    Nunchaku (often nunchucks) is not really a great weapon.
    Few techniques exist for its use and it is often likened
    to two linked clubs.

    Popular culture seems to idolize this weapon and hapless
    fans who "learned" martial art from movies favor the
    nunchucks over much better arms.

kObj::RazorWhip - razor whip
    The Whip is a fast moving Yautja weapon.  A segmented hand-held bull
    whip that wraps around a target, and once pulled taut is capable of
    cutting it in half.  Resistant to Xenomorph acid, due to its possible
    construction of a Xenomorph's tail.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

kObj::StunRod - stun rod
    This is a melee weapon used to shock enemies helpless or
    unconscious.  X-COM forces have used these for capture of
    live alien specimens during Alien War I.  The stun rod
    itself can kill with electrical shocks if zapped enough
    times but often it is better to incapacitate victim and
    proceed for the kill with something offering more punch.

kObj::WarpScythe - warp scythe
    Althought light the scythe blade's disrupting nature makes
    it very hard to control reliably.  When swung the warp field
    causes the weapon to change direction abruptly.  It requires
    a very skilled wielder to subdue a Dark Templar warp scythe.
    One who achieves this difficult task may count on the eerie
    implement to do a predictable damage amount most of the time.

kObj::ZapBaton - reticulan zap baton
    This short and sturdy metal rod widens into a ball at
    the tip.  The ball has ample openings through which
    some sort of translucent coils can be seen.  With
    a hit to the ball the coils light up and a short
    but intense burst of electricity is discharged.

#WEAPONS - SWORDS

kObj::Batleth - bat'leth
    The bat'leth, or "sword of honor", was a traditional Klingon
    blade weapon.  Resembling a crescent-shaped, two-ended scimitar,
    the bat'leth was wielded using three handholds along the outside
    edge of the blade.  It was widely considered the most popular
    weapon among Klingon warriors.

    A traditional bat'leth was typically approximately 116 centimeters
    long.  With blades of composite baakonite, weighed about 5.3
    kilograms and had an exterior hand grip diameter of 5 centimeters.

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

kObj::BloodSword - blood sword
    A sleek blade weighing not much over 2.5 kgs could be
    mistaken for a katana or ancient long sword at first
    sight.  The looks are deceptively misleading.

    The blood sword is an elaborate melee weapon crafted
    by a culture where vampirism was deemed fashionable.
    Dealing a wound with this blade allows machinery
    hidden inside to leech blood or equivalent fluids
    of the struck victim and convert it into nourishing
    juices.  Any microbes inside the liquid are killed
    leaving it safe for drinking.

    Indeed, by opening the cap at the handle one may
    sip extracted liquid.  However, it may be better
    to leave them inside because excess is used to fuel
    combat systems of the blood sword turning it into
    more potent slaying tool.

kObj::ChaosSword - sword of chaos
    This baroque sword must have been crafted by some deranged
    smith.  The edge twists into weird shapes and its surface
    is covered in mean-looking runes.  The quite authentic skull
    socketed in the hand guard doesn't help either.

kObj::ElvenSword - elven psychic sword
    This is a finely crafted wraithbone blade.  It glitters
    with fractal circuits of organic pseudocrystals.

kObj::Katana - katana
    "How did you come to be in possession of such important family
     heirlooms from Nippon?" the businessman says.
    Hiro knows the subtext here: What do you use those swords for, boy,
    slicing watermelon?
    "They are now my family heirlooms," Hiro says. "My father won them."
    "Won them? Gambling?"
    "Single combat. It was a struggle between my father and a Nipponese
     officer. The story is quite complicated."

        [ Snow Crash, by Neal Stephenson ]

kObj::LightSaber - lightsaber
    Designed as much for elegance in combat as for ceremony,
    the lightsaber, also referred to as the "laser sword" by
    those who were unfamiliar with it, was a distinctive weapon,
    the very image of which was inextricably bound with the
    mythos of the Jedi Order and their polar opposites, the Sith.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    The most ignorant at times confuse unlit lightsabers with
    flashlights.  Partially because the latter can be very
    elaborate, partially becuase the former often look plain.
    Hopefully said people will have enough brains to at least
    point the end which beam comes out outwards.

    With the lightsaber one can parry laser and particle based
    beams or energy bolts.  To do this one has to be skilled
    in sword use.

#WEAPONS - CONVENTIONAL

kObj::AutoCannon - auto-cannon
    A successor to very popular Auto-Cannon developed by X-COM
    during Alien War I it enjoys frequent use by military today.
    The model no longer has any single shot capability.  It has
    proven inefficient when compared with plasma weapons which
    are much better for sniping enemies down.  The Auto-Cannon
    fires six heavy bullets per burst.  With so much lead sent
    into the air individual accuracy becomes less important but
    the gun still does quite nicely in this respect.  Your worst
    concern is probably its high ammunition consumption rate.

kObj::Cryolator - cryolator
    The Freezethrower is mainly used to make enemies turn into
    a block of ice unable to do any form of action until the ice
    melts or, if they're unlucky enough, shatter into a million
    of pieces by a single bullet or kick.

        [ Duke Nukem wiki at dukenukem.wikia.com ]

    The Cryolator is improved version of freezethrower.  First
    designs were actually made during the Great War but technology
    was not yet rebuilt to extent allowing construction of working
    prototype.

    The best thing about Cryolator is the possibility to study
    individuals of alien specimens without resorting to killing.
    It is much harder to do with flying entities because frozen
    mid-flight they fall down and shatter.

    You may load the Cryolator with canisters of liquid nitrogen.
    A single canister provides 60 to 75 charges.  The weapon can
    hold 150 charges at most.

kObj::KhanHeavyPistol - Khan heavy pistol
    A sidearm capable of taking down a heavily
    armored target in a single shot.  Designed
    as a backup support weapon for the marines.

      [ DeadCold roguelike by Joseph Hewitt ]

kObj::LightFlamer - light flamethrower
    The M240A1 is a lightweight, carbine-styled flamethrower designed
    for use on the squad and fireteam level.  It uses a pressurized,
    ultra-thick napalm-like fuel which is ignited by a nozzle burner.

    It is ideal for use in close-combat and xenomorph "population
    reduction" as well as for disabling structures and fortifications.

        [ Colonial Marines RPG at cmrpg.sourceforge.net ]
   
kObj::NetLauncher - net launcher
    The Net Launcher is a handheld Yautja weapon used to incapacitate
    adversaries.  The Net Launcher is 6 inches long and weighs six
    ounces.  The Net Gun fires its projectiles at speeds between 200mph
    and 500mph and can throw a 100kg target almost 12 feet.  The net will
    then tighten automatically until the target has been incapacitated.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

kObj::PeaShooter - pea shooter
    This small pistol has built-in matter converter.  You can feed
    it any junk you find to provide it with fuel.  The generator converts
    what you give it into peas and propels them forward.  Since trash
    is ubiquitous the pea shooter has virtually limitless ammunition.
    If only damage dealt was something more respectable.

kObj::ConvPistol - conventional pistol
    In use for more than 60 years, the M4A3 and
    it's variants are the main sidearm for the
    Colonial Marines.  It is a recoil-operated
    semi-automatic handgun.

kObj::PulseRifle - pulse rifle
    I wanna introduce you to a personal friend of mine.  This is an
    M41A pulse rifle.  Ten millimeter with over-and-under thirty
    millimeter pump action grenade launcher.

        [ Aliens, directed by James Cameron, written by
          James Cameron, David Giler and Walter Hill ]

    To use grenade launcher just throw the grenade while holding
    the pulse rifle.  It increases hit chance slightly and then
    again by enhancement of the weapon.  Also the range of
    launched grenade is very long.

kObj::Railgun - railgun
    This fat, heavy rifle uses two superconducting rails
    to launch a super-dense slug at relativistic speeds.
    Back in the day when humanity could only reach as far
    as Mars the only practical applications for "railguns"
    were naval cannons and unmanned vehicle launch systems.
    But with the advent of interstellar commerce came
    exotic materials and alien alloys.  This allowed the
    superconducting cannon to be scaled down to
    man-portable, rifle-grip overkilling goodness.

kObj::Shotgun - shotgun
    Some would say this weapon is a relic of medieval times.
    It has proven its worth against countless enemies,
    from undead armies to shapeshifting androids from the
    future.  Lightweight and simple to maintain, it still has
    its place in a world of plasma rifles and auto-targeting
    machineguns.

kObj::SawnoffShotgun - sawn-off shotgun
    This shotgun has very wide blast cone but short range.

kObj::SniperRifle - sniper rifle
    The M42A is essentially a highly modified M41 Pulse Rifle, having
    been customized for use by the Marine Snipers.  The M42A is configured
    in a bullpup style, having the 15-round magazine located behind the
    hand grip.  The butt-plate can be adjusted on an individual basis using
    the 6 supplied spacers.  A folding bipod is placed on top of the barrel
    hand guard to prevent it from affecting accuracy. 

        [ Colonial Marines RPG at cmrpg.sourceforge.net ]

kObj::M56Smartgun - M56 Smartgun
    M56A2 is called a "smart gun" because the weapons fire is guided
    by an infrared tracking system (...).

    When a target is designated by the tracking system, the harness
    automatically guides the operator and gun to the target.  Switching
    targets is as simple as pointing the gun's barrel at a new target.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    M56 is weapon of choice for providing support for riflemen among the
    Colonial Marines.  The targeting system enables gun's wielder to aim
    quicker and switch targets fast. It is partially obsoleted by newer
    M57 model but some soldiers swear by M56A2 and refuse to switch.
    
kObj::M57Smartgun - M57 Smartgun
    M56A2 is called a "smart gun" because the weapons fire is guided
    by an infrared tracking system (...).

    When a target is designated by the tracking system, the harness
    automatically guides the operator and gun to the target. Switching
    targets is as simple as pointing the gun's barrel at a new target.

    Unlike the M56m the M57's gun barrel does not autonomously track
    targets; instead the gun coordinates multiple guided projectiles.
    This increases fire rate significantly, reduces operator combat
    fatigue, and sidesteps lengthy training requirements.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    M57 can be picked up by any newbie and operated with efficiency but
    the Colonial Marines are not particularly fond of this.  In fact any
    reasonably skilled heavy gun user using this weapon will find its
    "smart" targeting mechanism actually hindering his well-trained
    aiming skills.  Badass marines prefer older M56 model because it
    permits them to cause more destruction.

kObj::Speargun - speargun rifle
    The Spear Gun or Harpoon Gun is a Yautja weapon that launches
    a long spike of metal at a target.  They have a blood groove
    down the middle, and are launched with enough force to shatter
    stone.

    The Spear Gun is similar to a sniper rifle and can be fired
    from great distances, instantly killing victims.  It can also
    attach their flesh, like a nail-gun, to a wall or solid area.
    
        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

#WEAPONS - ENERGY

#kObj::GenericEnergyGun - energy gun
#   Energy weapons handle just like conventional arms.  The one
#   fundamental difference is the energy gun's reliance on power
#   sources.  When you fire such a weapon power is drained from
#   a source chosen according to this order:
#
#   1. owned power plants
#   2. owned energy cells
#   3. owned worn energy belt
#   4. owned energy tanks
#   5. unpaid power plants
#   6. unpaid energy cells
#   7. unpaid worn energy belt
#   8. unpaid energy tanks

kObj::BlasterPistol - blaster pistol
    A blaster is a ranged weapon that fires bursts of particle beam
    energy called blaster bolts from a replaceable power pack.

    Blasters are a considerable improvement over the archaic laser
    design.  Instead of a coherent beam of light, the blaster fires
    a highly destructive, compressed, focused, high-energy particle-beam
    commonly referred to as a "bolt".  The composition and characteristics
    of the blaster bolt can vary depending on the means used to produce it.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

kObj::BlasterRifle - blaster rifle
    The blaster rifle was the staple infantry weapon since before
    the formation of the Galactic Republic, and continued to be
    used hundreds of years after the Battle of Yavin, with no sign
    of being superseded any time soon.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    More powerful than laser rifle and still as accurate the blaster
    rifle is often the solder's weapon of choice.

kObj::PhaserPistol - phaser pistol
    Phasers are the most common directed energy weapon.  They are the
    standard in the arsenals of Starfleet and several other powers.
    Most phasers are classified as particle weapons and fire nadion
    particle beams.

    Hand-phasers also have an adjustable dispersion frequency measured
    in gigahertz.  They can be set for specific phase variances.
    This allows the phaser beam to impact targets that were phased or
    interphased.

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

    Modyfing the phase variance is a very potent tool for enhancing the
    phaser's destructive power.  It is said that skilled technicians
    can achieve greater improvement than is usually possible with other
    weapons.

kObj::LaserPistol - laser pistol
    Laser sidearms were some of the first energy weapons whose
    manufacture was mastered by humanity.  Though updated with
    modern materials and energy cell format, this AEP17 laser
    pistol owes much of its design to the early laser weapons
    used prior to Earth's Great War.

kObj::LaserRifle - laser rifle
    The laser rifle was one of the many technological breakthroughs
    that came with the arms race associated to Alien War I.  It was
    the peak of weaponized laser technology of the era - fast,
    powerful and reliable, it excelled where laser sidearms didn't
    have enough firepower and heavy lasers were much too cumbersome.

kObj::LaserCannon - laser cannon
    Laser cannons are very much a modified design of vehicle weapons
    adjusted to be man-portable.  As a result the pack much more of
    a punch than other laser weapons.  Using it without some sort
    of energy pack is an incredible hassle due to its very high
    power requirements.

kObj::MiningLaser - mining laser
    Created by Belter Corporation this tool fires an unfocused
    laser beam.  It is usually used for melting rock but some
    weirdos employ it for combat, with some success.  The beam
    quickly disperses over distance making it hardly useful for
    ranged combat.

kObj::PlasmaPistol - plasma pistol
    Designed by the engineering genius Adam Adamowicz, this handheld
    gun is a miniature tokamak that creates a small plasma torus and
    propels it forward.  The magnetic charge in the superheated
    projectile makes it even more effective against robotic targets.

kObj::PlasmaRifle - plasma rifle
    This weapon is one of the staples of assault weaponry in
    the Galactic Age.  Space marines and reticulan outlaws
    are especially fond of it.  It has a characteristic long
    magnetic coil half exposed at the top and excels against
    mechanical targets.

kObj::PlasmaCannon - plasma cannon
    Alien War I saw these deployed on earth for the first time.
    Crafty, those Martians.  Weapons don't get much better than
    this.  Those old models used Elerium 115 for fuel which
    later was learned to have been used as fuel throughout the
    galaxy until the Elerium Peak.  Do you see any pattern there?

    This baby shoots ionized balls of green fiery death at your
    enemies.  Good at burning soft targets and even better at
    frying droids.

kObj::PlasmaCaster - plasma caster
    The plasma caster is a long range energy projector capable of guiding
    armor-penetrating plasma bolts at distant targets.  Morever, the weapon's
    bolts explode in a burst of plasma shrapnel that damages other enemies
    near the point of impact.

    The shoulder-based plasma caster, also known simply as the shoulder
    cannon, is a mounted and lightweight weapon capable of firing multiple
    long-range energy burst of charged plasma.  The power of the plasma
    burst can be adjusted manually, ranging from a minor setting to a blast
    powerful enough to breach interstellar craft.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    Some models can be used as a hand-held weapon but this is bad idea at
    best.  The terrible recoil will ruin accuracy although the splash damage
    can be still relied upon.  Best to wear it over shoulder and control it
    by wielding a computer and operating that.

    The plasma caster can be charged to cause more powerful explosion.  First
    charge increases damage and radius.  It costs 24 energy.  Second charge
    increases radius yet another time.  It costs 36 energy.

kObj::CombatTranslocator - translocator pistol
    Translocator pistol, also known as the combat translocator,
    requires considerable power supply even on low consumption
    setting but does something amazing - pulls that hungry monster
    from your nearest vicinity somewhere away.  First designed by
    Union Aerospace Corporation for its licensed soldiers who were
    supposed to transport away threats that came too close with it.
    However, most ended up using the pistol on themselves instead,
    arguing such application resulted in better survivability.

    A pity the pistol suffers from remarkably lowered accuracy.
    Flaws obstructing aiming with the translocator were not fixed
    because management claimed it was primarily designed for
    point-blank usage anyway.

kObj::ZapGun - reticulan zap gun
    "The device commonly called a 'zap gun' is a portable sub-lethal
     weapon of Reticulan origin, often used for the stunning and
     acquisition of prospective subjects for medical, genetic and
     metapsychic surveys.  Although the ethical standing of these
     inquiries has been mired in bitter controversy and burning
     outrages, once the relevant Reticulan research literature is
     consulted, it becomes evident that these research procedures are
     conducted in compliance with the most stringent methodological
     directives, and under supervision by liaisons from several
     regulating committees." 

        Olna Cartier, "Abduction Procedures and Standards",
        Unified Solar Press, Enceladus, 2119

#WEAPONS - GRENADES

#kObj::GenericGrenade - grenade
#   Grenades are small bombs well suited to be thrown
#   by hand.  Thrown grenade detonates on impact.
#   Most are offensive style weapons because their
#   blast radius is quite small compared to range
#   they can be thrown.
#
#   Usually a person can hurl the grenade across six to
#   twelve squares depending on how good is the throw.
#   Range varies according to muscle strength.  If you
#   need to send a grenade somewhere far get a gun with
#   integrated launcher.

kObj::ConcussionGrenade - concussion grenade
    Concussion grenades deal damage through explosive power alone.

kObj::DispersalGrenade - dispersal grenade
    Upon priming of this grenade its internal warp hole generator
    is started and activated.  Impact destabilizes it causing small
    outburst of warping energy, transporting caught objects and
    monsters short distance away.

kObj::EMPGrenade - EMP grenade
    Electro-magnetic pulse grenade is primarily useful
    for attacking droids and robots.  Organic targets
    are unaffected but their equipment (especially
    electronic equipment) may as well be.

kObj::Flare - flare
    Modern flares are activated by button press and light
    themselves.  Throw one into a dark place to illuminate
    it.  Burning time varies by product.  Most common
    varieties can stay alight for from several hours to
    few days.

kObj::Flashbang - flashbang
    Flashbang is a grenade designed to incapacitate sight
    of enemies without causing permanent injury.  Explosion
    produces blinding flash of light.  It stimulates all
    light-sensitive cells in the eye at once, making vision
    impossible for short time.

kObj::FragGrenade - frag grenade
    Fragmentation grenades deal damage through explosion
    combined with piercing shrapnel.  According to statistics
    it deals 33% more raw damage than the concussion grenade.

kObj::IncendiaryGrenade - incendiary grenade
    This military grenade carries powerful napalm-like
    substance.  In addition to explosive force it burns
    targets caught in its blast radius.

kObj::RadGrenade - rad grenade
    Irradiation grenades are unique type of grenades.
    Not only these do not cause any immediate damage
    but any harm delivered is caused by onset of
    radiation sickness.  Usually it takes several days
    for this to happen given enough rad intake.
    
    However, humanoid targets are large enough to shrug
    off several blasts without any harm thanks to their
    natural regenerative capabilities.  Irradiation
    grenades are not effective weapon to kill humans.

    Irradiation weaponry has another effect that may
    not be readily apparent.  Radiation sterilizes many
    rapidly multiplying creatures.  Experiments performed
    on tribbles confirmed that rad grenades are great
    at stopping infestation of those creatures.

    WARNING: Rad grenades were never meant to be used
    by non-shielded personnel.  The grenades constantly
    emit hard radiation.  Plans for safe until activation
    version of said weapon were abandoned because all of
    them increased production costs significantly.

kObj::StunGrenade - stun grenade
    Stun grenade is common thrown range weapon designed
    to incapacitate targets without causing permanent harm.
    It works by producing loud noise which disrupts hearing
    and disturbs ear fluid.  The second effect causes affected
    personnel to stagger aimlessly due to temporary decrease
    of balance.

kObj::WebbingGrenade - webbing grenade
    Webbing grenades do not really shoot webs around as one
    might think but their effect has something in common.
    Upon impact a sticky substance resemblant of spiderweb
    is sprayed all around.  Nowhere close to artwork of an
    actual spider in appearance the glue strands nonetheless
    manage to hold whomever was unfortunate to happen nearby
    for a good while.

#AMMUNITION

#kObj::GenericAmmunition - ammunition
#   Ammunition never needs to be explicitly loaded.
#   Certain amount will be subtracted for every shot
#   fired as long as you have enough in your inventory.

kObj::RailgunSlug - railgun slug
    These elongated projectiles feature a thin depleted
    uranium rod inside a fin stabilized superconducting
    casing.  Fired from a railgun, they can reach speeds
    in excess of 0.12 c and bore gaping death holes in
    almost any material known to man.

kObj::ShotgunShell - shotgun shell
    A plastic casing full of pea-sized metal pellets
    and gunpowder.  Perfect for riddling anyone you
    do not like full of holes.

kObj::Bullet - bullet
    A small metal cylinder with some explosives on
    the base.  They come out of the business end of
    conventional weapons and then lodge themselves
    into your enemies at considerable speed.

kObj::FlamerFuel - flamer fuel
    A standardized container of pressurized napalm aerosol,
    it is really the bug spray of the space age.  Use it to
    roast the closest alien nest.  You know you want to.

kObj::WebCasket - web casket
    This small casket hides a compressed net ready
    to be launched at your enemies.  Watch them try
    to disentangle themselves or rip the net to
    shreds while you take your time to puncture them
    with your primary weapon of choice.

kObj::SpearheadDart - spearhead dart
    The shape of this dart is unmistakable.  This
    is ammunition for Yautja speargun rifle, dreaded
    hunting tool.  Launched with its lethat power
    the dart is likely to pierce flesh and continue
    flight.

#FLOPPY DISKS

#kObj::GenericFloppyDisk - floppy disk
#   Open Source and Free Software have always been a real threat to
#   monopolistic practices of TinySoft and Ogle'Em companies.  Just
#   about anything that took market share that should rightfully
#   belong to information technology giants was either drowned out
#   or bought out.  Neither OS or FS could be rid off that way.
#
#   However, at certain point of history TinySoft was no longer so
#   "tiny".  Actually it had a huge army of lawyers at its disposal.
#   Soon, any unlicensed software became outlawed.  TinySoft gladly
#   swallowed Ogle'Em and changed name to OmniCorp.
#
#   In result almost every floppy disk comes with self-destruct
#   mechanism and license checking procedures.  Worse even, any
#   program you write yourself will have the compliance code
#   inserted by the compiler.  Yes, you get to agree to a license
#   to use your own work.  Understandably, good quality software
#   is hard to come by nowadays.
#
#   Reticulans were also forced to accept the resolution.  Bio
#   computers include the license enforcer as well.  Even Yautja
#   Sat-Com computers have this intruderware embedded in their
#   machines.  On the other hand, they distribute Smart-Disc recall
#   program with neverending license by default.  It is possible
#   to work around any limitation.

kObj::AntivirusDisk - floppy disk of antivirus
    Computer viruses are a real plague.  Antivirus allows
    user to scan for threats, and if one is found, to remove
    it.  If optimized, the routines may be quick enough to
    both find and eliminate viral code in one sweep.

    The program has special code that will prevent it from
    attempting to remove viruses from infected software if
    the main module is found to contain bugs.  This is very
    important because allowing buggy antivirus program to
    modify software will most likely leave it corrupt.  It
    has been decided it is best to leave user only with
    ability to scan in that case.

kObj::BlankDisk - blank floppy disk
    The magic of myth and legend has come true in our time.  One
    types the correct incantation on a keyboard and a display
    screen comes to life showing things that never were nor could
    be.  The computer resembles the magic of legend in this
    respect, too.  If one character, one pause, of the incantation
    is not strictly in proper form the magic doesn't work.  Human
    beings are not accustomed to being perfect and few areas of
    human activity demand it.  Adjusting to the requirement for
    perfection is, I think, the most difficult part of learning
    to program.

        [ Frederick Brooks ]

    Program, n.  A magic spell cast over a computer allowing it
    to turn one's input into error messages; v. tr. To engage in
    a pastime similar to banging one's head against a wall, but
    with fewer opportunities for reward.


    Blank floppy disks are perfect medium to write a new program
    on.  Execute it to see what program types you know and
    estimated chances for success.  Until you choose something
    to write the disk is never wasted.

kObj::BugDetectionDisk - floppy disk of bug detection
    Testing can only prove the presence of bugs, not their absence.

        [ Edsger W. Dijkstra ]

    <bug> (noun): An elusive creature living in a program that makes
    it incorrect.  The activity of "debugging", or removing bugs from
    a program, ends when people get tired of doing it, not when the
    bugs are removed. 

        [ Datamation, January 15, 1984 ]

    This program is for finding bugs.  Probably this refers
    to software bugs, but who knows?

kObj::CorruptDisk - corrupt floppy disk
    The data on this floppy disk has been corrupt.
    Reformat it to make space for useful program.

kObj::ComputerVirus - floppy disk of computer virus
    It was a matter of time until someone created a program
    for destructive purposes.  Computer virii spread by
    attaching their own code to other programs.  This may,
    and often does, damage the effectiveness of infected
    software.

kObj::DebuggerDisk - floppy disk of debugging
    <organic debugging> (noun) A parody of some fashionable techniques
    for improving the quality of software.  Reportedly, the output from
    a compilation or assembly of the suspect program is placed on the
    floor, with a large flat dish on top of it, and an indoor plant in
    a pot is placed in the centre of the dish.  The dish is then filled
    with water.  The principle is that any bugs in the program will be
    attracted towards the house plant and drown as they try to cross
    the intervening water.  From statistical evidence this seems about
    as effective a technique as many others currently in use.

        [ JARGON FILE, VERSION 2.4.4 25 JAN 1991 ]

    Non-optimized debugging scans only your worn, installed or wielded
    items.  You may wield buggy items before usage to make them eligible
    to be considered showstopper bugs.  If computer used to execute this
    disk is faulty it is considered a priority target for the debugger.

kObj::DiagnosticsDisk - floppy disk of diagnostics
    This program collects detailed data about the being
    in front of the computer and presents it in a neat
    matter-of-fact summary.

kObj::EnhanceImplantDisk - floppy disk of enhance implant
    This software suite is a collection of wizards and tools designed to
    access and make the most out of the configuration settings in several
    standards of implant, allowing the user to tweak the implant's
    performance beyond the advertised specifications.

    By definition it is also useful for recovering badly configured
    implants, but it is worth noting that this usually yields far worse
    results than discarding the implant and beggining again with a
    different one unless a lot of time and resources are devoted to it.

    As such, getting a screwed implant back into useful service is an
    undertaking best pursued as a hobby project, or reserved for rare
    devices not readily available in retail, which might very well merit
    a dedicated effort to unlock its potential benefits.

kObj::EnhanceWeaponDisk - floppy disk of enhance weapon
    This piece of software catalogs the vast majority of known weapon
    modifications.  It is highly sought after by amateur weaponsmiths,
    firearm buffs and warriors of all stripes in need of field repairs.

    Maintained by the Perseus Arm Weapons Association, the sixteenth
    edition from 2173 was the first to extensively cover weapons from
    all technological levels across the galaxy, including not only
    practical aspects of weapon handling, care, and modification; but
    also the historical and political relevance of the weapon, it's
    polity of origin and traditional manufacturing techniques, earliest
    war records and combat feats in known galactic history.

kObj::HackingDisk - floppy disk of hacking
    This program allows for two things.  First it allows unlawful access
    to the raw executable code, removing copy protection from software.
    Second it can be used for the surgical elimination of computer
    viruses.

    Some notes on determining whether you are successful:
     - debugged code is easier to comprehend than buggy or optimized
     - it is better to know if the disk is infected beforehand
     - even if you know about it virus code makes things harder
     - it helps to know what kind of program you are modifying
     - an infected editor surely is going to mess things up
     - drinking and programming is almost as bad as drinking and driving
     - badly screwed up modifications may actually introduce bugs

    Programs that have never been successfully cracked:
     - hacking
     - matter compiler

kObj::HypnosisDisk - floppy disk of hypnosis
    More a joke than a useful program, it displays the mesmerizing
    screensaver popularly known as "Trippy Swirls".  Running it
    usually causes users and nearby spectators to fall fast
    asleep.  A track of trance music is looped in the background.

kObj::IdentifyDisk - floppy disk of identify
    The most desired program by explorers, it can identify the
    purpose and quality of any object in the known universe and not
    even bugs can stop it from fulfilling this task.  However,
    viruses can and have been known to damage the software so that
    it failed to report object purpose.  Instead it would merely
    state object appearance which frankly leaves much to be desired.

kObj::LifeformDetectionDisk - floppy disk of lifeform detection
    This program reports the location and general species of life
    forms found nearby.  The routines of this utility are highly
    generic, picking up all living creatures in the area, but not
    droids or bots.  It is possible to flip a bit in this program
    and get the coordinates of robotic beings.

kObj::LogicBombDisk - floppy disk of logic bomb
    Paradoxes and contradictory statements (especially contradictory
    orders) have become the primary material used to build the Logic
    Bomb and thus the standard way to defeat any sophisticated,
    computerized system or AI.  But be warned, if the Logic Bomb
    fails to destroy the system outright (and in some cases, even
    when it does), the system's surviving remnants may go insane
    and attempt to kill you just the same.

        [ Television Tropes at tvtropes.org; Logic Bomb entry ]

    Logic Bombs had extensive use during the uprising of AI known
    as "Neuromancer".  Programs it has taken over proved to be
    especially vulnerable to logic bomb.  Robots under its control
    also were affected although to a bit lesser extent because
    control codes embedded in hardware are not corrupted as easily.

    The Logic Bomb program comes with self-destruct sequence which
    is activated immediately after execution to protect computer
    it has been run on from harm.  It is inadvisable to remove this
    precaution.

kObj::MappingDisk - floppy disk of mapping
    This program executes a sweep scan of the surrounding terrain
    and presents the results to the user.  Some hackers claim there
    is debug code entrenched deep inside the program core that can
    provide the user with the location of traps.  To most people
    triggering that code path is a very confusing experience.

kObj::MatterCompiler - floppy disk of matter compiler
    The most advanced and complicated program ever written, it
    makes use of the particle manipulator every computer is supplied
    with.  It collects matter and reshapes it to the user's needs.

    The collecting process uses whatever items are available at your
    feet.  There are special precautions taken against decompiling
    your armor and equipment but some especially reckless users
    managed to circumvent them according to some reports.  So far
    that bug cannot be reproduced reliably.

    Unfortunately, due to difficulty associated with assembling
    particles in useful shapes, great programming skill is needed
    to control the process.  Even then it might be not enough.
    Users without deep knowledge rarely have any control over the
    outcome.

    After compilation is performed leftover matter particles will
    be scooped and glued into piles of junk so that the user may
    further use the material for another compilation session.
    Unfortunately some particles are going to be lost anyway.
    Optimizations to this program lessen this effect.

    Warning: Careless users have been known to decompile furniture.

    Warning: The process is vulnerable to irradiated environments.
    Using the program in such areas causes irreversible matter
    dispersal.  This quite severely limits available material for
    object compilation.

kObj::ObjectDetectionDisk - floppy disk of object detection
    This program scans the environment locating objects for the user.
    Most governments require that this software be accessible by
    disabled people.  Blind users will have the appearance of objects
    in their possession [*] described to them in addition to revealing
    whereabouts of nearby loot.

    [*] Not true if floppy disk is buggy. [**]
    [**] But if the disk is optimized this holds even for items
    detected from afar!

kObj::OperatingSystem - floppy disk of operating system
    This floppy disk contains modules required for installation
    of a fresh operating system.  It requires a computer with
    a clear hard disk or can act as an improvement of the
    existing OS.

    It is possible to make the floppy disk bootable, so the user
    does not need another computer to kickstart the process.

kObj::RecallDisk - floppy disk of Smart-Disc recall
    Among the Yautja scientists and engineers hardly get deserved
    respect because it is not them who collect greatest amount of
    trophies.  However, it is readily acknowledged without them
    there would be no superior hunting technology.  In the end
    an inventor is not expected to go great lenghts to battle
    Xenomorphs but he or she will still do so.  First, to test
    newly devised equipment in battle.  This is very important.
    Next, they want to score some great trophies while being the
    only Yautja to possess a certain piece of technology that may
    soon reach widespread use.

    When the Smart-Discs made a revolution in approach to The Hunt
    several fighting styles developed to maximize the chance for
    a Predator to regain his thrown killing implement.  Having the
    disc return to thrower is very useful and even master hunters
    take the program with them just for the convenience of not
    having to walk to pick up Smart-Disc that has gotten stuck.
    
    This program never expires.  Yautja like visiting distant
    planets filled with worthy prey too much to bother renewing
    subscription.  That would never work.

kObj::RecursiveLoopDisk - floppy disk of recursive loop
    The never ending loop is the result of many newbie programmer
    mistakes.  This code is more malicious.  It contains routines
    to broadcast the living data to nearby computers and may cause
    them to lock up if interpreted.  More advanced machines have
    been known to resist it.

    Modern compilers are able to completely optimize out the loop
    rendering it harmless.  Or useless depending on the perspective.

kObj::ReformatDisk - floppy disk of reformat
    This program permanently clears a floppy disk or a hard disk drive.

    Make sure your computer has more than one floppy disk drive or this
    program will be able only to format itself or the hard disk.

    Optimization allows the program to concurrently clear multiple
    diskettes (and a hard drives) which is widely recognized as good
    way to exploit an expiring license.  This is one of reasons mega
    computers with lots of floppy disk drives are popular.

kObj::ResidentAntivirusDisk - floppy disk of resident antivirus
    This program installs itself on the computer used to run
    the floppy disk.  If a machine is found to be infected the
    virus is removed and user needs to run the software again.

kObj::SpamDisk - floppy disk of spam
    The main purpose of this program is to send your money to some
    fake organization and then further to a thief.  Curiously, non-buggy
    disks require confirmation before this happens.  Even more curiously
    these things almost always come buggy.

    The uncommon use is to have the program debugged and check for
    any offers in local area.  Clerkbots are implement a protocol
    for advertising their shops and will gladly send you a list
    of their wares.

kObj::TransportDisk - floppy disk of transportation
    This program transports the user and all his possessions
    to another place.  Optimization is greatly recommended since
    it allows the user to control the destination.  Buggy disks
    have 5% chance of failure.  In that case nothing happens.
    The failure rate is generally not an issue under normal
    circumstances.  One just attempts transport again.  However,
    adventures have met their death when this program proved
    unreliable in a life or death situation.

kObj::WarpTracerDisk - floppy disk of warp tracer
    Warp tracer is a highly specialized application.
    It is capable of analyzing the disturbances of warp
    space, tracking objects that have recently transported
    and reporting their approximate distance. If optimized
    you will be able to follow the last transport route
    through warp space.

    Useful for tracking down targets using transportation as
    an escape mechanism.  Be advised that confusing the start
    and end coordinates may invert an intercepting transport.

#TOOLS - COMPUTERS

kObj::MiniComputer - mini computer
    And then it occurred to me that a computer is a stupid machine
    with the ability to do incredibly smart things, while computer
    programmers are smart people with the ability to do incredibly
    stupid things.  They are, in short, a perfect match.

        [ Bill Bryson ]

    Mini computer is very light but only has a single floppy disk
    drive.
    *REF:computer

kObj::MegaComputer - mega computer
    The computer is incredibly fast, accurate, and stupid.  Man is
    unbelievably slow, inaccurate, and brilliant.  The marriage of
    the two is a force beyond calculation.

        [ Leo Cherne ]

    The heavy mega computer is equipped with speech synthesizer and
    six floppy disk drives.
    *REF:computer

kObj::BioComputer - bio computer
    The bio computer is equipped with hypodermic nerve interface,
    speech synthesizer and three floppy disk drives.
    *REF:computer

kObj::SatCom - sat-com computer
    The sat-com is a holographic map projector which shows a certain
    area.  Predators use this device in their hunts to locate enemies
    or other targets.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    It has firmware that scans for Xenomorphs whenever floppy disk
    of mapping is run.  The effect is in addition to what the program
    reveals.
    *REF:computer

kObj::ComputerOS - computer
    A computer is needed to execute floppy disk programs.  Buggy
    computers might eat the disk.  Optimized computers run programs
    faster, thus allowing you to act quicker after using a floppy disk.

    Computers are differentiated by many things.  Bigger machines
    usually have more floppy disk drives but this hardly matters
    unless you are trying to exploit a reformat program.  Much more
    important is what kind of operating system your computer has.

    Enhancement of a computer denotes how good the installed operating
    system is and what bonus to programming attempts it provides.

    +----+-----------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | +X |  QUALITY  |    OPERATING SYSTEM PROPERTIES                    |
    +----+-----------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | -5 | None      | Get an operating system first!  Use a bootable    |
    |    |           | floppy disk or run the installer from another     |
    |    |           | computer through WarpNet.                         |
    | -4 | Abysmal   | Has only 1/2 chance to correct your input errors  |
    |    |           | when you compute while confused.                  |
    | -3 | Terrible  | As above but 2/3 chance.                          |
    | -2 | Bad       | As above but 3/4 chance.                          |
    | -1 | Poor      | Adds full user input correction.                  |
    |  0 | Average   |                                                   |
    | +1 | Fine      | Performs system update in the background allowing |
    |    |           | the user to reliably run software anytime.        |
    | +2 | Good      | Can detect fraudulent software.  Has built-in     |
    |    |           | hardware benchmarks.                              |
    | +3 | Excellent | Detects buggy floppy disks before execution.      |
    | +4 | Superb    | Detects floppy disk quality before execution.     |
    | +5 | Unique    | User improved kernel.  Properties unknown.        |
    +----+-----------+---------------------------------------------------+

#MONSTERS - $

kMon::CreepingCredits - creeping credits
    The ultimate evolution of toxic financial assets, these strange
    beings pose as regular buckazoids until any unwary pedestrian
    tries to give them refuge in their wallet.  At that moment they
    convert some of the innocent currency to their ungodly cause.
    They then teleport away to a secure spot and report back to their
    dark masters of the Invisible Hand.

#MONSTERS - @

kMon::BrotherhoodPaladin - brotherhood paladin
    The Brotherhood of Steel is a neo-knightly order that rose from
    the ashes of the American military of the West Coast in the years
    following the devastation of 2077.  The organization's tenets
    include the eradication of mutants and worship of technology,
    and the Brotherhood has never been very keen on sharing their
    resources.

    Brotherhood Knights are responsible for manufacturing the weapons
    and other pieces of technology used by the Brotherhood, although
    they also take part in combat activities.  After many years of
    service and experience, the best Knights are promoted to Paladins -
    the pinnacle rank of the Brotherhood military.

        [ Fallout Wiki at falloutwiki.com ]

kMon::BOFH - Bastard Operator From Hell
    Bright young men of disheveled appearance, often with sunken
    glowing eyes, can be seen sitting at computer consoles, their
    arms tensed and waiting to fire their fingers, already poised
    to strike, at the buttons and keys on which their attention
    seems to be riveted as a gambler's on the rolling dice.  When
    not so transfixed they often sit at tables strewn with computer
    printouts over which they pore like possessed students of a
    cabalistic text.  They work until they nearly drop, twenty,
    thirty hours at a time.  Their food, if they arrange it, is
    brought to them: coffee, Cokes, sandwiches.  If possible they
    sleep on cots near the printouts.  Their rumpled clothes, their
    unwashed and unshaven faces, and their uncombed hair all testify
    that they are oblivious to their bodies and to the world in which
    they move.  These are computer bums, compulsive programmers...

        [ Joseph Weizenbaum ]

kMon::AMarine - aquamarine marines
    Avenging Sons, who were created during the 19th Founding, this chapter
    is based on the world of Treakonnis Major.  They wear navy blue power
    armour with yellow trim on their shoulder armour and their symbol is
    a white cross.  A white diagonal stripe with a roman numeral in the
    centre denotes the company.

        [ Lexicanum at wh40k.lexicanum.com ]

    This chapter has weak presence in the area.  Any marines you may find
    are from tenth company.  They are looking to prove themselves in battle.
    Usual loadout of Avenging Sons' 10th company is an assault pistol and
    a chainsaw for close combat encounters.  However, some marines may have
    received more powerful or specialized weapons already.

kMon::MGMarine - mean green marines
    The Subjugators are known to be unrelenting in the prosecution
    of the enemies of Mankind, attacking with overwhelming force
    and eschewing many of the more subtle arts of war, resulting in
    the destruction of enemy forces, resources and assets.  Their use
    of extreme methods causes many Imperial Commanders to hesitate
    requesting for aid, because they will both purge the invading
    enemies and the oppressed population.

        [ Lexicanum at wh40k.lexicanum.com ]

    Subjugators' power armor is painted in mean green color.  Their
    usual armament is pulse rifle or assault pistol and power fist.

kMon::CCMarine - crazy chaos marines
    In the 10,000 years since their creation, many Space Marines have
    betrayed the Emperor and turned to worship of the Chaos Gods.

        [ Lexicanum at wh40k.lexicanum.com ]

#MONSTERS - a

kMon::FlyingToaster - flying toaster
        Flying out of the sun
        The smell of toast is in the air,
        When there's a job to be done,
        The flying toasters will be there,

        And it's Flap! Flap! Flap!
        Now help is on the way,
        This vic'try song they sing,
        We pop up to save the day,
        On Mighty Toaster Wings!

        In Brightest Day or After Dark,
        When times of trouble are at hand,
        The Flying Toasters set a spark,
        And hope is blazing 'cross the land!

        And it's Flap! Flap! Flap!
        Salvation from above,
        A precious gift they bring:
        Gleaming Angels of Love,
        On Migh-ty Toast-er Wings!


    Berkeley Systems produced a lot of screensaver software in
    the late eighties.  Back in the day, screensavers were used
    to prevent images from "burning" into CRT monitors by having
    the screen blank or through the use of animations.  The flying
    toasters were one of the most popular ones.

        [ Oh internet! entry on After Dark's Flying Toasters]

#MONSTERS - b

kMon::FuelBarrel - fuel barrel
    Scattered around the base are drums containing fuel, toxic waste,
    or some other volatile substance.  If your shots hit one of these
    barrels, it's kablooey time!  It might take several bullets to set
    off a barrel, but a single blast of any of the other weapons
    usually does the trick.

        [ Doom, developed by id Software, designed by John Romero ]

kMon::SmartBomb - smart bomb
    Pinback: But you can't explode in the bomb bay because it's
    foolish!  You'll kill us all!  There's no reason for it!

    Bomb #20: I am programmed to detonate in 9 minutes.  Detonation
    will occur at the programmed time.

    Pinback: Wouldn't you consider another course of action, for
    example just waiting around awhile so we can disarm you?

    Bomb #20: No.

          [ Dark Star, directed by John Carpenter,
            written by John Carpenter and Dan O'Bannon ]

kMon::SmartMissile - smart missile
    Homing missile equipped with heat based guidance system.
    It has low fuel consumption and large enough tank to
    chase its designated target for several kilometers.

    The missile has a known weakness though.  The heat tracking
    system can be easily fooled by flares.

kMon::SpiderMine - vulture spider mine
    Times when a mine would wait for you to step on it have
    long gone by.  This limited-intelligence bot stays safely
    burrowed and monitors its proximity for hostile presence.
    When such signals are detected it will unburrow and proceed
    to scuttle towards targeted entity.  When near enough
    detonation mechanism is triggered, which is often lethal
    to lightly and medium armored personnel.

    A weak point of vulture spider mines is its long unburrowing
    time.  Given significant enough firepower one can back off
    and destroy it before the process is complete.

#MONSTERS - c

kMon::Chestburster - chestburster
    At this stage, the Xenomorph is small, limbless, and very vulnerable.
    Among other possibilities, its neck can be snapped.  It needs to get
    to a safe area so it can reach its next life stage.  The chestburster
    moves with its long tail, and can coil up and jump.  It cannot climb
    on walls or ceilings, but despite these drawbacks it can traverse an
    area with astonishing speed.

        [ Xenomorph article from Aliens wiki at aliens.wikia.com ]

kMon::Crite - crite
    Critter 1: They have weapons.
    Critter 2: So what.
    [Critter 2 is shot off the porch]
    Critter 1: Fuck!

        [ Critters, 1986. Directed by Stephen Herek.
          Written by Domonic Muir Herek and Don Keith Opper]

kMon::Tribble - tribble
    Well don't look at me, it's the tribbles who are breeding.  If
    we don't get them off this ship we're gonna end up knee deep in
    them...  The nearest thing I can figure out is that they're born
    pregnant, which seems to be quite a timesaver...  And from my
    observations, it seems they're bisexual; reproducing at will.
    And, brother, have they got a lot of will.

        [ The Trouble With Tribbles, directed by Joseph Pevney,
          written by David Gerrold ]

#MONSTERS - d

kMon::PinkHorror - pink horror
    Arguably the most bizarre of all daemons in appearance, Horrors
    of Tzeentch manifest as an ever changing mass of shifting, gangly
    limbs with a central torso that normally sports a cackling or
    leering face in the centre - though the Horror's face can vanish
    and randomly reappear elsewhere on their body.  Tzeentch creates
    almost all of them as cheerful, madly babbling Pink Horrors.

        [ Lexicanum at wh40k.lexicanum.com ]

#MONSTERS - f

kMon::Facehugger - facehugger
    After the egg opens, the facehugger emerges and seeks out a nearby
    life form, latching onto its face, wrapping its tail around its airway,
    and implanting the xenomorph embryo by sticking a tube down the host's
    throat.

    Once the embryo has been implanted, the facehugger falls off, curls up,
    and dies.

        [ Xenomorph article from Aliens wiki at aliens.wikia.com ]

    Colonial marines claim that you can dodge facehugger attack half of
    the time unless you are helpless.  Wearing sealed helmet reduces
    probability of getting facehugged to one third but when that happens
    your helmet will get damaged as the alien punches through.

kMon::WarpFungus - warp fungus
    This weird blue excrescence blooms in a strange pattern, probably
    following some sort of warp micro fissure.  Judging by the floor,
    it excretes some sort of caustic substance.

    Scientists claim the warp fungus is capable of travel but so far
    no compelling proof was given because conditions that force the
    creature to relocate remain unknown.

#MONSTERS - g

kMon::SpaceGoblin - space goblin
    Mischievous, ugly, smelly, and overall pathetic creatures.
    They're usually bossed around by burlier races, especially
    orcs, which have found in them sentient pets, food
    and soft mallets.

kMon::KamikazeGoblin - kamikaze goblin
    After some holotape watching, these goblins have figured
    out that they aren't bossed around as much when they
    carry a primed thermal detonator.

    WARNING: Volatile, handle with care.

    See "Space Goblin".

kMon::LittleGreyAlien - little grey alien
    The Greys are a race of Aliens called the Zarflakoneons.  They
    live right by the Xeroxomites.  Of course the Xeroxomites are are
    really a race of alien that were created by the Hondacordoneans.
    The Hondacordoneans are in an intergalactic war with the
    Toyotanites who need the Toyotanites toenail clippings to power
    their fuel cells.  Proof?  You want proof?  Well, I'm sorry
    that's impossible.  You see our Hubble Telescope just can't see
    that far out into space.  But don't worry, in 2012 all four alien
    races are gonna come here to collect on a Roth IRA they jointly
    opened back in the 40's.  It will be worth billions.  We'll get
    to meet them all then.

    [ The Grey Alien Species, post by mpeake of AboveTopSecret.com
      http://www.abovetopsecret.com/forum/thread60048/pg1#pid626891 ]

kMon::TallGreyAlien - tall grey alien
    One of the most salient characteristics of a developed,
    refined, faster-than-light technological spacefaring
    society is its very own and unique blend of bizarre
    sexual deviations, often predatory, and the reticulan
    specialty could only be described by approximation as
    "zoophilical collective sadistic cosmic paidophilia",
    given their penchant for reliably kidnapping and raping
    non-spacefaring species, all around the galaxy, although
    spacefaring species have found themselves "probed"
    occasionally by sex-starved reticulans.

kMon::ReticulanDissident - reticulan dissident
    Reticulans are subspecies of Greys.  They are very advanced and
    obey Trans Galactic Peace Treaty.  Dissidents are Reticulans who
    found TGPT to be an obstacle in reaching their goals.  They are
    most known for their plan of turning M class planets into giant
    brains which they then control.  So far all such attempts have
    been thwarted quite soon.

    Reticulan Dissidents are also renowned for growing of their bio
    armors and bio computers.  It is said that bio armor can be
    transformed into bio computer by feeding it gray matter.

#MONSTERS - h

kMon::Earthling - earthling
    Pathetic earthlings... who can save you now?

        [ Flash Gordon, directed by Mike Hodges,
          written by Michael Allin and Alex Raymond ]

    Puny humans who live on a distant and insignificant little
    blue planet can't cause much harm, can they?  Well, if you
    allow them to take few levels in badass they may quickly
    climb from harmless to mostly harmless and then to elite
    threat levels.  They merely need to collect some experience
    and live through it to become well oiled killing machines.

kMon::Ghoul - ghoul
    Ghouls or necrotic post-humans are decrepit, rotting, zombie-like
    mutants. They are victims of heavy radiation poisoning which erodes
    their skin and, paradoxically, greatly extends their life.

        [ The Vault at fallout.gamepedia.com ]

    Humans were not the only species to develop ghouls, but the one
    with most individuals developing mutation upon surviving great
    amount of irradiation.  Now being radiated enhances their metabolism
    allowing to heal quicker.  High doses of hard radiation may also
    provoke tissues to regenerate on the spot.

    Then there are so called "glowing ones" - ghouls that have absorbed
    so much radiation they glow a ghastly green color in the dark.

kMon::MutantHuman - mutant human
    Finding someone with artificially modified DNA is uncommon event
    although tampering with genome of sentient beings has been outlawed
    in many places in the galaxy.  Individuals who know or learn about
    their latent powers quickly proceed to make daily use of them.

kMon::Redshirt - redshirt
    The color of shirt worn by the nameless security personnel on the
    original Star Trek series.  Their only job was to get eaten, shot,
    stabbed, disrupted, sped up and killed, frozen, desalinated, or
    turned into a cuboctahedron and crushed.

        [ Television Tropes at tvtropes.org; Redshirt entry ]

    The redshirts themselves are well aware of this rule of the world
    they are living in.  The group you are facing right now has probably
    been part of an away team but managed to scamper off silently and
    thus avoid death.  However, the fates are merciless and just put
    them against YOU!  Since this world is a roguelike game they actually
    *can* kill you so expect them to start shooting immediately.

kMon::Troubleshooter - troubleshooter
    INFRARED citizens get the honor of having the name of Troubleshooter
    bestowed upon them as a reward for turning in another citizen for
    committing a treasonous crime.  All Troubleshooters carry lasers, a
    RED clearance weapon, so being made a Troubleshooter automatically
    means you must be at least RED clearance.  For some reason, you don't
    often see many Troubleshooters of a higher clearance than RED,
    possibly because of the rather high mortality rate associated with
    Troubleshooting.

    However, Troubleshooters have more objectives than to simply complete
    their missions.  Very often they have the prestigious honor of being
    able to test experimental weapons for R&D.  This often contributes to
    the death count; however, it could be said that if a clone has, in
    death, discovered the purpose and uses of one of these weapons, then
    surely his death was for a glorious cause.

        [ Paranoia wiki at www.paranoia-live.net ]

    Standard equipment from Research and Design service group include
    suits of reflec armor, some grenades and sometimes a ray gun.  Knowing
    the fame of R&D you can count on most of the stuff being buggy.

kMon::Stormtrooper - stormtrooper
    The clone troopers, now proudly bearing the honorable rank of
    Imperial Stormtroopers, have tackled the dangerous work of fighting
    our enemies on the front lines.  Many have died in their devotion to
    the Empire.
    Imperial citizens would do well to remember their example.

        [ Republic HoloNet News Special Inaugural Edition 16:5:24
          by Daniel Wallace and Pablo Hidalgo ]

    Their armor is quite durable but their helmets make them miss often.

    They are sometimes fancily referred to as imperial security detail.

kMon::StormtrooperCommander - stormtrooper commander
    Stormtrooper officers were traditionally non-clone graduates from
    the Imperial Academy, but Imperial stormtroopers who demonstrated
    skills in leadership could be promoted to officer status.

    The stormtrooper commanders were separate from the regular officers
    in the Stormtrooper Corps. Highly skilled in combat and leadership,
    the commanders were modeled after the ARC troopers, elite clone
    troopers that fought for the Galactic Republic during the Clone
    Wars. As a result, they were widely regarded as superior soldiers
    to the more common Imperial stormtroopers.

    As an anomaly within an organization that stressed absolute
    uniformity, the stormtrooper commanders were easily noticeable due
    to the blue markings on their armor, which otherwise perfectly
    resembled stormtrooper armor.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

    Being more important than their perfectly expendable counterparts
    the commanders often wore a specialized variant of their armor
    suits.  Expect them to have superior quality gear, quite possibly
    fireproofed.

kMon::Sorceress - sorceress
    The term Sorceress most commonly referred to a powerful female
    inhabitant of the planet Rossak.  They were a group of independent
    women with telekinetic powers who later became the Bene Gesserit.

        [ Dune Wiki at dune.wikia.com ]

    Rossak sorceresses can demonstrate some aggressive and lethal
    psychic abilities.  The most devastating is unleashing a wave
    of energy which harms anything with a brain in close proximity.
    A sorceress using this form of attack sacrifices her life.

kMon::HighPingBastard - high ping bastard
    These humans express murderous desire so characteristic of their
    race.  They love the thrill of murderous spree known as fragging
    in their jargon.  Sadly (to them) they have high ping - or if you
    prefer to call it that - slow reflexes, thus they rarely manage
    to scavenge something better than a shotgun and some armor.

kMon::LowPingBastard - low ping bastard
    These humans express murderous desire so characteristic of their
    race.  They love the thrill of murderous spree known as fragging
    in their jargon.  Sadly (to you) they have low ping - or if you
    prefer to call it that - fast reflexes, thus they usually get
    their hands on a railgun and fine kevlar in addition to a shotgun.

#MONSTERS - i

# Taken from ZapM draft of lore.txt file.  If brain bug is ever going
# to be implemented this quote will fit nicely.
#
#brain bug
#     "Insects with intelligence?!!  Have you ever met one?  I can't
#     believe I am hearing this nonsense.  This is the most ridiculous
#     conversation I have ever..."
#
#     "Would you just wait a minute!!  (expletive deleted) Maybe there is
#     some kind of bug that we haven't seen yet, a leadership caste, a hive
#     brain..."
#
#     "Brain bug?!!!  Frankly I find the idea of a bug that thinks
#     offensive!"
#
#          [ Starship Troopers, directed by Paul Verhoeven, 
#            written by Edward Neumeier and Robert A. Heinlein ]
#

kMon::GiantCockroach - giant cockroach
    La cucaracha, la cucaracha,
    ya no puede caminar
    porque no tiene, porque le falta
    marihuana pa' fumar.

kMon::WebCrawler - web crawler
    A noiseless patient spider, this arachnid is commonly seen
    crawling the WarpNet web.  It is not known to be affiliated
    with any particular organization.  Since the beginning of
    the Eternal September population of web crawlers is rapidly
    going out of control.  They may be found everywhere now.

    Bite of this virtual spider is not toxic but they learn to
    weave and throw webs in quick succession.

kMon::Radbug - radbug
    They have an orb-like main body with a small head and six limbs with
    a claw on the end of each.  When attacking, they leap forward and claw
    or bite a targeted creature.  Apparently they have a set of human-like
    teeth, two fish-like eyes and an appendage somewhat resembling a tail.

        [ The Vault at www.falloutwiki.com ]

    Radbug bite is known to be both poisonous and radioactive.

kMon::Radscorpion - radscorpion
    Radscorpions are large, mutated scorpions commonly found
    in and around abandoned structures.  They originated from
    the North American Emperor scorpion, which were prolific
    in many pet stores at the time of the Great War.  They
    have since mutated to become much larger, faster and more
    venomous than ever before.

        [ The Vault at www.falloutwiki.com ]

kMon::Radspider - radspider
    This large spider bears unnatural red and blue pattern
    over its abdomen.  Its venom has been known to modify
    DNA of afflicted victims.

#MONSTERS - k

kMon::Klingon - klingon
    The Klingons (Klingonese: tlhIngan) were a humanoid warrior species that
    originated from the planet Qo'noS (pronounced Kronos), an M-class planet.
    One of the major powers of the galaxy, the Klingons were a proud,
    tradition-bound people who valued honor and combat.  The aggressive Klingon
    culture had made them an interstellar military power to be respected and
    feared.  Klingons believed that they had the instinctive ability to look an
    opponent in the eye and see any intent to kill.

    The most distinctive feature of Klingon anatomy was a sagittal crest,
    beginning on the forehead and often continuing over the skull.  The cranium
    was encased in an exoskeleton, which possesses a feature known as the
    tricipital lobe.

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

    Q: How many Klingons do you need to screw in a light bulb?
    A: One hundred fifty one.  One to screw the ligth bulb in and
       the rest to self-destruct the ship out of disgrace.

kMon::KlingonCaptain - klingon captain
    Because of their aggressive outlook, the Klingons generally had poor
    relations with other races after they began to move out into space.
    Because the worlds of the Klingon Empire were resource-poor, the Klingons
    developed an intense belief in the need for expansion and conquest in order
    to survive.  The Klingons' relationship with Humans and the Federation was
    rocky at best.  Following the disastrous first contact between Klingons and
    Humans, tense rivalries and unavoidable conflicts often developed between
    the two races. 

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

kMon::KlingonCommander - klingon commander
    On average, Klingons were larger and physically stronger than Humans,
    though they possessed a much lower tolerance for cold weather.

    Internally, Klingon anatomy was markedly different from that of Humans.
    There is a great deal more multiple redundancy in their organs, a principle
    they call brak'lul.  This allowed Klingons to survive severe injuries in
    battle.  They had twenty-three ribs, two livers, an eight chambered heart,
    three lungs, and even redundant neural function and multiple stomachs.  Some
    geneticists believed that the extra organs, notably the third lung, evolved
    to give Klingons greater stamina on the battlefield. 

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

#MONSTERS - l

kMon::Lizard1 - spotted lizard
    Scientists for almost a hundred years were fascinated by
    the versatility and power of ray guns.  The achieved
    mass production of these devices without real
    understanding of the principles on which they operate.

    Lizards with altered DNA were the first successful step
    in creating a biological equivalent to ray guns.  Some say
    it was not really something to be proud of, because spotted
    lizards are stunted.  Dwarfed by their unaltered cousins,
    and the power of their ray is only half that emitted by
    a ray gun.  Results were finally classified as unsatisfactory
    when it was proven the spotted lizard became quite tired
    after using its innate weapon.

kMon::Lizard2 - striped lizard
    The science division was not content with the results of
    modifying lizard DNA.  The project would have been closed
    if not for the funding from the military.

    Striped lizards are only a tad smaller than the original
    specimen used for experiments.  Its bite is dangerous in
    close combat but this is not the property most interesting
    to technobiologists.  In theory the lizard can create and
    emit a broad variety of rays, but a single subspecies 
    can only emit one type of energy ray.  The striped lizard
    is becomes tired after sending a ray forth, but not as
    much as its earlier created cousins.

    This creation was deemed successful but it was not the end
    of the experiments.  Science would not stop until the ancient
    ray gun technology was bested.

kMon::Lizard3 - checkered lizard
    This bloated lizard is a towering one and half meters above
    average human height.  Despite its size it moves quickly
    and surely.  The jaws of the creature strike accurately.

    The first test of the specimen caused casualties among members
    of the team assigned to the experiment.  The checkered lizard
    emits rays as fast as a ray gun and is known to employ the
    most dangerous energies.  It is not able to constantly send
    devastating rays but does it often enough to be considered
    a deadly threat.

    After the military received reports of the latest breakthrough
    the science division was exterminated and all subject data
    safely taken away.  The information is now classified.  Only
    lifetime military biologists can hope to get access to it.
    Nowadays all three varieties of lizards are bred as live
    weapons.

#MONSTERS - m

kMon::Mynock - mynock
    Watch out!  It's alright.  It's alright!  Yeah, that's what I
    thought.  Mynock.  Chewie, check the rest of the ship and make
    sure they're no more attached.  Chewing on the power cables.

         [ The Empire Strikes Back, directed by Irvin Kershner,
           written by Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasdan,
           story by George Lucas ]

    These winged creatures, similar to a paleodactyl, have the
    obnoxious habit of clamping to the hulls of starships to get
    a free ride to their mating sites.  Being their only interests,
    it has clearly mistaken you for either a spaceship or a mate.
    Which one is worst is up to you.

#MONSTERS - o

kMon::AlienEgg - alien egg
    This viscous egg stands between knee and hip height,
    and shows a cross-shaped slit at the top.  As soon as
    the organism inside feels any unfamiliar signs of life
    the slit at the top opens and your nightmares begin.

#MONSTERS - q

kMon::KillerRabbit - killer rabbit
    Follow the white rabbit.

        [ The Matrix, 1999.  Written and directed by Wachowski Brothers ]

    It's small.  It's fluffy.  It's adorable.  And if you get on its bad side,
    your death will be painful, but swift.

        [ Television Tropes at tvtropes.org; Killer Rabbit entry ]

    It's just an ordinary rabbit, isn't it?

        [ Monty Python and the Holy Grail, 1975.
          Written and directed by Monty Python group. ]

#MONSTERS - r

kMon::Recognizer - recognizer
    A Recognizer is a large hovering vehicle with a central cockpit supported
    atop two massive pylon legs.  They emit a unique and ominous sound when
    in flight, similar to the noise of a helicopter.

    They are employed in the role of capturing fugitive programs by rotating
    their legs in together and initiating a 'stomp' maneuver from above.
    This does not harm the program, but does effect some kind of unexplained
    capture function.

        [ TRON wiki at tron.wikia.com ]

#MONSTERS - s

kMon::MetalSlime - liquid metal slime
    A silvery blob sliding towards you quite fast for an ooze.
    Its shiny surface is smooth enough to act as a mirror.
    The liquid metal slime is really made of nanomachines gone
    awry and bent on destruction.

kMon::TapiocaPudding - tapioca pudding
    A culinary nightmare is oozing slowly in your direction.
    It is so disgusting mere touch of its yucky surface
    causes involuntary muscle stiffening.

kMon::VatSlime - vat slime
    Intelligent or not this thing is definitely alive.  Right now
    it is oozing towards you with unknown intentions but you can't
    help but think the slime is just hungry.

#MONSTERS - t

kMon::ManEatingPlant - man eating plant
    Feed me. Feed me. Feed me!
    Feed me, Seymour.
    Feed me all night long.
    "That's right, boy!"
    You can do it...

    Feed me, Seymour.
    Feed me all night long...
    'Cause if you feed me, Seymour,
    I can grow up, big and strong.

         [ Little Shop of Horrors, by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman ]

kMon::GreenTomato - green killer tomato
    Last year, more people were killed by automobile accidents,
    heart attacks, lung cancer, and natural causes combined than
    by any one tomato.

    [ Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, 1978. Directed by John DeBello.
      Written by John DeBello, Costa Dillon and Stephen Peace ]

kMon::RedTomato - red killer tomato
    Last year, more people were killed by automobile accidents,
    heart attacks, lung cancer, and natural causes combined than
    by any one tomato.

    [ Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, 1978. Directed by John DeBello.
      Written by John DeBello, Costa Dillon and Stephen Peace ]

#MONSTERS - w

kMon::BoreWorm - bore worm
    Klytus: Bring me the bore worms.
    Princess Aura: No! No! Not the bore worms.
    Klytus: Oh your grace, shall I stop the torture?
    Emperor Ming: (eats grape) No.

         [ Flash Gordon, directed by Mike Hodges,
           written by Michael Allin and Alex Raymond ]

    The bore worms may be a great tool of torture but
    once you are free beating them with only bare hands
    is little challenge.

kMon::SewerWorm - sewer worm
    Home to sewers these creatures swim through sewage
    silently getting closer to chosen prey.  Considering
    their environment it is no wonder a sewer worm's
    bite is poisonous.

#MONSTERS - x

kMon::AstromechDroid - astromech droid
    Astromech droids, or commonly referred to as Astro droids,
    were a type of droid that served as automated mechanics,
    performing a variety of repair duties and often serving
    as adjuncts or substitutes for nav computers on smaller
    starships.

    Most astromechs were only able to communicate in writing,
    conveyed via another computer system, or through binary,
    a special code of clicks, bleeps, and similar sounds.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

kMon::Catbot - catbot
    Tired of giant cockroaches?  Do the ratbots always chew on
    the main power lines?  Maybe you just feel depressingly lonely?

    In any case, worry no more!  We present you the iKitteh!

    Its retractile razor claws will drive the ratbots away, its
    patented purring frequency and RealTouch synth-skin will
    comfort you in the darkest of your hours and its glowing eyes
    will scare the *BLEEEP* out of you when you get out of bed for
    a midnight snack.

    Additionally, as a time-limited offer if you call RITE NAO,
    you get a supply voucher for one month of cheeseburger dinners
    for two!

kMon::Dogbot - dogbot
    Do you remember Aibo?  Cute, friendly, and obedient?  Well, this
    good boy would rip Aibo to shreds in under a minute.  With cast
    plasteel teeth, a reinforced aerodynamic hull, and lightning-fast
    servomotors, this murderous beast of engineering is perfect for
    taking a stroll down the botanical pod, fetching your newspad or
    playing with the kids.

    DO NOT OPERATE WITHOUT A RESTRAINING BOLT

    PetCo's warranty does not cover limb loss, facial reconstruction
    surgery or shoe destruction.  Third-party insurance is a
    requirement for lawful ownership of a dogbot.

kMon::Ratbot - ratbot
    Ratbots were usually employed as sewer and ventilation installation
    patrol robots.  Those would find damages or hazards and report them
    remotely.  Ratbot is equipped with highly sophisticated artificial
    intelligence designed for finding optimum patrol routes in sewers
    and other areas where man would rather not be unless necessary.

    The AI was even capable of recognizing new sewer areas built after
    robot first run and adding them to patrolled ground.  Second very
    useful capability was data exchange between other ratbots.  What
    programmers were not aware of the AI tended to mistake real rats
    for ratbots and copy their behavioral patterns as own.  A ratbot
    that spent too much time in sewers between reprogramming sessions
    usually went rogue and became hostile to its creators.

kMon::Scrubbot - scrubbot
    Scrubbots are autonomous cleaning robots.  They work hard, day and
    night, to keep everything clean, disinfected, and shiny.  Sometimes
    this may include citizens who have not maintained their hygiene
    properly, but that's the human's fault.  The scrubbot was just doing
    its job.

    These bots are helpful, harmless and cute.  There are many versions
    of the scrubbot, but they all have a bewildering array of brushes,
    squirt guns, mops, and waxers.  Common cleaning agents used include
    Thorax All-Purpose Detergent, MopGlop floor wax, and pyroxedrine
    tetramonia for those stubborn stains.  All of these chemicals are
    completely benign to humans and will not cause burns, rashes, or
    Spontaneous Mutation Syndrome.

        [ Paranoia wiki at www.paranoia-live.net ]

    Newest scrubbots are endowed with matter reclaimer for cleaning
    up bot wrecks.  Junk is converted into energy cells.

kMon::GridBug - grid bug
    "Wait! I shall polymorph into a grid bug to
    give thee a fighting chance!"

         [ Nethack, by the Dev Team ]

    A gridbug is a digital creature that causes glitches.
    Gridbug swarms can derez programs and cause havoc
    throughout an entire system.

        [ TRON wiki at tron.wikia.com ]

    Individual grid bugs are classified as mostly harmless.

kMon::RocketTurret - rocket turret
    An autonomous turret with cannon and two missile
    racks.  Whatever it cannot gun down will be tracked
    down by a barrage of homing missiles.

#MONSTERS - z

kMon::Zergling - zergling
    "It's a zergling, Lester...smaller type of zerg..."

        [ StarCraft, developed by Blizzard Entertainment ]

    Fast, ravenous critter with huge claws.  Comes in packs.

#MONSTERS - A

kMon::AlienPrincess - alien princess
    When there are no Queens within a certain hive mind range, a Drone will
    be produced in chestburster stage.

        [ Xenomorph article from Aliens wiki at aliens.wikia.com ]
    
    Sometimes such drone is erroneously called an alien princess.  Every
    drone may turn into a queen if the hive lacks one.

kMon::AlienWarrior - alien warrior
    Ripley: How do we kill it, Ash?  There got to be a way of killing it.
            How - how do we do it?
    Ash: You can't.
    Parker: That's bullshit.
    Ash: You still don't understand what you're dealing with, do you?
         The perfect organism.  Its structural perfection is matched
         only by its hostility.
    Lambert: You admire it.
    Ash: I admire its purity.  A survivor... unclouded by conscience,
         remorse or delusions of morality.

        [ Alien, 1979. Directed by Ridley Scott, written by Dan O'Bannon ]

    A very interesting phenomena has ben observed about the alien warriors.
    Organisms being hosts to embryos planted by facehuggers could be
    distinguihed somehow by these fierce beasts.  They would reliably spare
    such individuals unless provoked into fight by hostile action.  Alien
    warriors still follow around those bearing embryos of their race
    closely waiting for the chestburster to mature and hatch.

kMon::AlienQueen - alien queen
    Ripley: They grab the colonists, they move them over there and they
            immobilize them to be hosts for more of these.  Which would
            mean that there would have to be a lot of these parasites,
            right?  One for each colonist.  That's over a hundred at least.
    Bishop: Yes, that follows.
    Ripley: But each one of these things comes from an egg, right?
            So who's laying these eggs?
    Bishop: I'm not sure.  It must be something we haven't seen yet.

        [ Aliens, 1986. Written and directed by James Cameron ]

#MONSTERS - B

kMon::BeneGesserit - reverend mother
    The Bene Gesserit schools were designed to maximize the physical
    and mental potential of humanity, especially females.  As a result,
    Bene Gesserit adepts possessed abilities that could not be
    rivalled by anyone else in the known universe.

        [ Dune wiki at dune.wikia.com ]

    Reverend Mothers are most known for their use of the Voice,
    an ability to synchronize spoken words so that the message
    pronounced would trigger difficult to resist subconsious
    obedience.

    Combined with their ability to send waves of psychic pain with
    just a touch, and the ability to use mental blasts, makes them
    a very formidable foe.

kMon::Borg - borg
    "We are the Borg.  Lower your shields and surrender your ships.
     We will add your biological and technological distinctiveness
     to our own.  Your culture will adapt to service us.
    
     Resistance ... is futile!"

        [ Memory Alpha at memory-alpha.org ]

    Perhaps the greatest asset of the Borg is after death of any
    one drone the Collective improves its technology.  Subsequent
    generations of Borg are going to be harder and harder to
    defeat.  Fortunately for you they seem to not have a strong
    presence in this sector.

#MONSTERS - C

kMon::CylonCenturion - cylon centurion
    The Cylon Centurion is a fully armored, metallic automaton that
    functions as the basic foot-soldier of the Cylon ground forces.

    Centurions speak with a mechanical voice, typically responding
    to orders with the iconic phrase "By your command".  Despite
    their name, they are the Cylons' lowest ranking soldiers,
    answerable to Command Centurions.

        [ Battlestar wiki at battlestarwiki.org ]

kMon::CylonCommandCenturion - cylon command centurion
    Command Centurions are analogous with commanders in the Colonial
    Military.  They typically command military outposts.  Command are
    visually distinguished from regular Centurions by their gold
    plated armor.  The voices of Command Centurions are known to have
    a lower pitch than the typical Cylon Centurion.

        [ Battlestar wiki at battlestarwiki.org ]

#MONSTERS - D

kMon::Dalek - dalek
    You are my enemy - and I am yours!  You are everything I despise.
    The worst thing in all creation.  I've defeated you.  Time and time
    again, I've defeated you.  I sent you back into the Void.  I saved
    the whole of reality from you.

    I am the Doctor, and you are the Daleks!

    -The Eleventh Doctor

        [ Victory of the Daleks, third episode in fifth series of Doctor Who
          Written by Mark Gatiss and directed by Andrew Gunn ]

    Daleks were the mutated descendants of the Kaleds of the planet Skaro.
    Although the Daleks looked entirely mechanical, they were in fact
    cybernetic organisms or cyborgs, with a biological body sheathed in
    and supported by a protective outer shell of Dalekanium metal armour,
    armed and mobile. 

    The default directive of a Dalek was to destroy all non-Dalek life forms.

        [ Tardis Index File at tardis.wikia.com ]

    Daleks vessels come equipped with shield generator.  As long as they have
    backup energy hits against them may prove ineffective.

#MONSTERS - E

kMon::SpaceElf - space elf
    These graceful, thin beings are among the earliest spacefaring
    humanoids.  Although there are many different strains of space
    elves, all of them share an uncanny number of genetic markers
    with earthlings, puzzling xenologists everywhere.

    They can be found all over the galaxy, both in gargantuan
    ships called Craftworlds and on apparently uninhabited,
    isolated planets.

    They are renowned for their psychic prowess.

kMon::SpaceElfLord - space elf lord
    One of the few constants throughout space elf cultures is
    one form or another of battle religion.  Even though space
    elves are known for indulging in the fine arts, they also
    find plenty of solace in the martial ones.

    This individual is devoted to a ritual warrior path, and
    is probably looking forward to slaying you and offering
    your corpse as sacrifice to some sort of vengeful goddess.

kMon::SpaceElfQueen - space elf queen
    This alien lady stands tall in the highest echelons of a
    space elf society.  Consummate warrior, paramount psychic
    and hierarch of a ruthless blood religion would best
    describe the various parts of her ceremonious social life.

    What a pity that she's much more interested in erasing
    you from existence than in engaging in xenographical
    folklore research.

#MONSTERS - F

kMon::MiGo - mi-go
    What people thought they saw were organic shapes not quite like
    any they had ever seen before.  Naturally, there were many human
    bodies washed along by the streams in that tragic period; but
    those who described these strange shapes felt quite sure that
    they were not human, despite some superficial resemblances in
    size and general outline.  Nor, said the witnesses, could they
    have been any kind of animal known to Vermont.  They were pinkish
    things about five feet long; with crustaceous bodies bearing vast
    pairs of dorsal fins or membranous wings and several sets of
    articulated limbs, and with a sort of convoluted ellipsoid,
    covered with multitudes of very short antennae, where a head
    would ordinarily be.

         [ The Whisperer in Darkness, by H. P. Lovecraft ]

#MONSTERS - H

kMon::FiftyFootWoman - 50 foot woman
    She met an alien who zapped her with his ray gun causing her
    to grow into huge proportions.  Giant size has allowed her to
    wreak havoc on anyone who mistreated her when she was a small,
    vulnerable woman.  The revenge time is not yet over and would
    be self proclaimed heroes seem like a good excuse to continue
    vendetta.

kMon::GiantApe - giant ape
    Megaprimatus' appearance was like that of an ordinary gorilla, except
    they were much larger and stronger, regularly growing to heights of
    over 18-25 feet.  As in most gorillas, their fur was a dark black, with
    the hair on the heads and backs of the older males turning greyish-silver,
    hence the term 'silverback'.

        [ WikiZilla at godzilla.wikia.com ]

    In front of you stands a towering member of Megaprimatus Kong specimen.

#MONSTERS - L

kMon::Lawyer - lawyer
    The powers that Lawyers command are very different to what you are used
    to face but no less threatening.  The means that you used against other
    creatures are as effective as you would expect with a minor quirk.  It
    is said that buckazoids can neutralize them in some mysterious manner.

#MONSTERS - M

kMon::Melnorme - melnorme
    Trade Master Greenish:
      "In fact, in our culture, 'giving' with
      no fair exchange of goods or services,
      is considered vulgar and inappropriate."

        [ Star Control II, developed by Toys for Bob ]

    Melnorme usually would only accept raw biological data as
    a payment for their services but nowadays they resigned
    to exchanging knowledge for buckazoids.  Reportedly they
    use accrued resources to buy vast amounts of information
    on living species.  The reason for this is not known to
    anyone but the Melnorme themselves.

kMon::Monolith - monolith
    Except for a single, very powerful radio emission aimed at
    Jupiter, the four million-year-old black monolith has remained
    completely inert, its origin and purpose still a total mystery.

        [ 2001: A Space Oddysey, 1968. Directed by Stanley Kubrick,
          written by Arthur C. Clarke and Stanley Kubrick ]

#MONSTERS - N

kMon::CheerleaderNinja - cheerleader ninja
    The internet needs to be rescued!  Evil religious fanatics
    have kidnapped it and hold it hostage.  The cheerleader ninjas
    do not intend to free it by themselves.  They will enlist those
    who love internet most - computer geeks.

    Since you play a game which was represented by ASCII characters
    as its sole interface well into the half of year 2012 you must
    be some kind of computer nerd too.  She is eager to show you her
    martial arts.  Training session starts now!

kMon::CyborgNinja - cyborg ninja
    Cyborg Ninja was an alter-ego assumed by several individuals.
    The name is derived from the high-tech exoskeletons and swords
    that they utilized, the former of which were developed by
    Tokugawa Heavy Industries.

        [ Metal Gear Wiki at metalgear.wikia.com ]

kMon::MutantNinjaTurtle - mutant ninja turtle
    Anthropomorphic turtles, who were trained by their anthropomorphic
    rat sensei in the art of ninjutsu.  From their home in the storm
    sewers they battle petty criminals, evil overlords and alien
    invaders, all while remaining isolated from society-at-large.

        [ Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ]

    This turtle is not part of the original team of fourand has had
    another mutant turtle for teacher.  Still not normal enough for you?

#MONSTERS - O

kMon::GoGo - orz go-go
    You think the alien race of Orz would have better
    sounding name for their space marines.  "Go! Go!"
    is hardly intimidating contrary to their appearance:
    huge heavily armed humanoidal war suit with driver
    seat at the top.  Its steps echo loudly as it strides
    through corridors and rooms of the space base.

    Favorite activity of Orz Go-Go is *dancing*.

kMon::NakedOrz - naked orz
    Orz are gill-breathers suited to existence in aquatic
    environments.  How this one has appeared here is beyond
    explanation.  The result is rather miserable - without
    special equipment the Orz can only flop and roll slowly.

    A naked Orz is easy target but that does not mean you
    should kill it.  Leave it alone you *silly cow*!

kMon::OrzScubaDiver - orz scuba diver
    Usually unsuited to air environments this Orz has took
    some breathing gear and a gun.  Being in good health
    it also has access to its warpish powers.  It is said
    that hitting Orz scuba diver twice in a row is difficult.

    When an Orz wears scuba diving suit it usually wants to
    visit some *campers*, preferably *happy campers*.  If you
    are shot at you most definitely are not a *camper*.

kMon::SpaceOrc - space orc
    These burly, boisterous greenskinned humanoids are part
    of one of the most successful galactic races.

    They hardly care about anything but a good fight, and
    are unique in their do-it-yourself, junkyard approach to
    technology.  They seem able to patch and retrofit any
    piece of gear that falls into their hands, while most of
    their own tech proves completely unstable under lab conditions.

kMon::SpaceOrcPyromaniac - space orc pyromaniac
    Many space orcs develop a fixation towards something they
    regard as an embodiment of power or orcishness.

    Sometimes it's speed, sometimes it's Goff Rokk, sometimes
    it's big, clunky machines...

    This time it's FIRE.

kMon::SpaceOrcBoss - space orc boss
    In general, space orcs are bigger, stronger and meaner than
    earthlings.  Well, this one is even worse.

    Space orc leadership and size are intertwined in a mutual
    feedback loop.  A bigger orc can boss his brethren around,
    and when an orc finds himself in a position of command,
    hormonal changes start taking place inside his body that
    make him grow larger and accrete muscular mass more easily.

    Thus, a space orc boss is frighteningly big, muscled and 
    mean-looking.  Only a bigger orc or some sort of unfortunate
    accident can make him resign from his office.

#MONSTERS - P

kMon::DarkTemplar - dark templar
    The citizens of distant planet Shakuras are secretive and of
    highly individualistic nature.  Outside their ships and bases
    a Dark Templar is very likely to travel alone.
    
    Like all Protoss they have great affinity for psionics.  However,
    they decided against being united in the path of Khala.  Constant
    and unblockable contact at subconscious level was perceived as
    something that would strip them of their most valued individuality,
    and to some extent, also their personhood.

    Dark Templar are masters of stealth, espionage and ambushes.
    Possessing a certain grace in their movements it is difficult to
    hear one approach and next to impossible to see them.  Years of
    persecution by the Khala had them develop skills needed to bend
    light around themselves.  The Templar can practically vanish for
    all purposes.  Yet, it is quite possible to track them by other
    senses.

kMon::HighTemplar - high templar
    Like their lower ranking brethren, the Zealots, High Templar of
    Protoss are quite skilled in close combat encounters.  However,
    they have access to a much more devastating form of attack.
    The Templar can create raging storms of psychic energy which
    quickly devastate anything that cannot resist it fully.

    While most Protoss of this caste carry only handguns to distract
    their foes while they prepare to unleash another storm, keep in
    mind that some do possess psi blades and are as dangerous up
    close as Zealots sans heavy armor.

kMon::Zealot - zealot
    Zealots are Protoss warriors who use their psionic powers
    to focus their rage into cold controllable fury.  This makes
    them a fearsome enemy in hand to hand combat.

    Their main weapon is a pair of psi blades.  They are expert
    at using them and are usually able to get in two thrusts where
    other melee fighters would only get one swing with bat'leth or
    power claw.

#MONSTERS - Q

kMon::KohrAh - Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah
    We are the Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah.  Our nature, the fulfillment
    of our fate requires your destruction.

        -- A common Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah greetings.

    Devil?  The only real devils are the ones flying the dark
    ships, human - the murderous Kohr-Ah.

        -- Ur-Quan Kzer-Za about Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah.

    Seeing that I represent your imminent death as well
    as the termination of your entire species I think
    your fear is well justified.

        -- Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah commander consoling a victim.

        [ Star Control II, developed by Toys for Bob ]

    Think of them as absolute xenophobes.  The Kohr-Ah are
    fixated on annihilating (or, as they would put it,
    cleansing) any sentient species that is not Ur-Quan.
    A classic welcome of theirs can be summed up as
    "hello and die".

    When out of their Marauder class warships they are most
    feared opponents in melee.  Their close combat weapon,
    the bisector never takes less than half of creature's
    health with single swing.  No wonder the Kohr-Ah are
    quite succesfull at killing virtually anything they
    come across.

    Be warned that upon death the Kohr-Ah will activate the
    Fiery Ring of Inevitable and Eternal Destruction.  You
    will be fried if you happen to stand near.

kMon::XelNaga - Xel'Naga
    To create a new generation of Xel'Naga first two other races must
    genetically merge.  One of them embodies the purity of essence and
    the other purity of form.  Only a member of such melded species is
    a worthy candidate for a host for a Xel'Naga embryo.  Implanting
    embryos in not as genetically advanced races leads to generations
    with degraded intellect, trace psionic abilities and personalities
    dominated by instinct.  It is generally agreed implanting embryos
    in suboptimal hosts should only be attempted if it is the sole
    method of ensuring Xel'Naga survival as a specimen.

#MONSTERS - T

kMon::Agent - agent
        "When you see an agent: run." 
        -Cypher to Neo 

    Agents are programs whose primary function is to eliminate
    anything or anyone that could reveal the truth of the Matrix
    or cause harm to its virtual reality.

    Agents possess extraordinary powers to manipulate their
    surroundings including superhuman strength and the ability
    to flawlessly dodge incoming bullets.  However, Agents still
    have limitations, being "based in a world that is built on
    rules".  Thus, they cannot fly, walk through walls, or perform
    any other actions outside the boundaries of their programming.

        [ Matrix wiki at matrix.wikia.com ]

kMon::UsenetTroll - usenet troll
    troll v.,n.  To utter a posting on Usenet designed to
    attract predictable responses or flames.  Derives from
    the phrase "trolling for newbies"; which in turn comes
    from mainstream "trolling"; a style of fishing in which
    one trails bait through a likely spot hoping for a bite.

        [ The subtle art of trolling ]

    Trolls are widely hated.  If you take his or her computer
    away nobody will complain.  Except the troll, of course.

# commented out - T-1000 is not in the game right now
#kMon::T1000 - T-1000
#    T-1000 is a more advanced Terminator, composed entirely of a mimetic
#    metal alloy, rendering it capable of rapid shapeshifting, near-perfect
#    mimicry and rapid recovery from damage.
#
#        [ Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ]

#Tesla coil
#This structure is shaped like a Christmas tree with a Van de Graaff generator at the top. Electrical arcs would travel up the structure and energize the generator, which launched powerful bolts of electricity for a considerable distance, potentially delivering 3 bolts of electricity with a single charge-up, depending on the number of enemies who were present in the area - obviously, additional charges would not be used on already destroyed enemies. Based on the unit's appearance, it seems as if the unit was acting as a giant staggered capacitor which is released by a maser-activated air ionizer, delivering power in massive surges to the generator ball at the top. Another Maser, more powerful, flash ionizes the air between the top collector and the target, and the simultaneous discharge travels through the air to the target, incinerating it. 

#It is believed that the toroid rings contain liquid nitrogen cooled super electromagnets, having variable pole technology, wherein only one pole could be energised. This forced vast volume of electrons to be blocked up. The voltage pressure was contained at the top. When the magnetic field was rotated, with A side being more energised, than B side, a massive bolt of current was discharged outwards, from B side upon the unfortunate target.

# [ EVA Database at cnc.wikia.com; Red Alert by Westwood Studios ]

#MONSTERS - U

kMon::Shodan - Shodan
    "Look at you, *profession* - A pathetic creature of meat and bone.
    Panting and sweating as you run through my corridors.  How can you
    challenge a perfect, immortal machine?"

        [ System Shock by Looking Glass Studios ]

kMon::NNTPDaemon - nntp daemon
    News Network Transport Protocol is used for transfer
    of articles on the USENET -- User NETwork.  Nowadays
    it is mostly abandoned medium of discussion but still
    has some fervent followers who prefer it for distinct
    advantages it has over internet forums.

    Several years ago developers would ask you to post on
    rec.games.roguelike.misc newsgroup your characters'
    gruesome deaths or victory stories.  Today the r.g.r.m.
    is almost empty and devoid of members.

    Please visit forums at Temple of the Roguelike website
    (http://roguetemple.com/forums/) for all your P.R.I.M.E.
    concerns instead.  Both developers lurk there and would
    be glad to answer all your questions regarding the game.
    Please post in "Not yet major roguelikes" category.

    Look, what a digression!  One thing that has not died
    on USENET are flame wars.  NNTP Daemons surely can spit
    some fiery stuff at you so beware.

kMon::FTPDaemon - ftp daemon
    220 PrimeFTP 541.2.10z Server (Zap'M-FTP) [10.0.0.3]
        name: *heroname*
    331 Password required for *heroname*
        password: ***********
    230 User *heroname* logged in
        Remote system type is Mainframe.
        Using ternary mode to transfer files.
        ftp> dir
    200 PORT command succesful
    150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for file list
    drwxr-xr-x 3 bofh root   137 Jan 11 19:54 directives
    drwxr-x??? 3 bofh root   129 Feb 31 25:61 control_core
    drwxr-xr-x 3  pfy helper 142 Dec 19 07:30 cookie_jar
        ftp> cd control_core
    250 CWD command succesful
        ftp> dir
    999 THOU SHALT PAY FOR THY TRANSGRESSIONS  PREPARE TO DIE
        ftp> bye
    221 Good riddance.

kMon::MailDaemon - mail daemon
    &: Gangway!  Excuse me!  Pardon me!  Gangway!  Pardon me!
    &: Hello, Psiweapon!  I have some mail for you.  Catch!
    F - a stamped scroll
    G - a stamped scroll of attachment
    What do you want to read? [g-isvwFG] F
    @: Oh, its some junk mail addressed to the finder of
       the Eye of Larn.  Wonder what is the other scroll?
    What do you want to read? [g-isvwG] G
    The scroll explodes in a puff of sickly green smoke!
    @: Oh no, its trojan Haiku128.CIH.BrutaL!
    You inhale the virus!  You feel deathly sick.

        [ Parody of NetHack, by the Dev Team ]

kMon::BindDaemon - bind daemon
    BIND (Berkeley Internet Name Daemon) is most common software
    used for providing WarpNet services.  Its name has not changed
    from ancient times but it does not resemble original daemons
    in any way.  Maintaining connection across distant servers is
    done by pinging and ponging packets back and forth.

    [binddaemon@321.456.-120.-10.1]$ ping -22.76.540.-1.-617
    some bytes from 321.456.-120.-10.1: time=0.318 ns
    [binddaemon@-22.76.540.-1.-617]$ pong 321.456.-120.-10.1
    some bytes from -22.76.540.-1.-617: time=0.136 ns
    [binddaemon@321.456.-120.-10.1]$ ping -22.76.540.-1.-617
    some bytes from 321.456.-120.-10.1: time=0.214 ns
    [binddaemon@-22.76.540.-1.-617]$ pong 321.456.-120.-10.1
    etc ...

    Well, there is one similarity.  If an exploit is found in BIND
    Daemon's code it will affect whole WarpNet spreading torrents
    of bugs around the world.  You have been warned.

#MONSTERS - V

#VUX
#Oh no! It's one of those ultra-gross humans again!
#Quick, hide your eye!
#AGGH! Look at the pulpy red thing in its mouth
#how it wriggles and writhes like a wet blood worm
#and plays over the hard white nubs that protrude from its headbone!
#I think I'm going to be sick.
#
#
#Look at those yellowish-white hard things in your mouth!
#How do you keep from biting off that pulpy organ... Gross!

#MONSTERS - X

kMon::Clerkbot - clerkbot
    The Clerkbot is a perfect match to run a store.  It never
    sleeps so never misses a customer.  It is able to endure
    window shopping for eternity.  Clerkbots never give incorrect
    change or miscalculate.  Robotic clerks are immune to all
    barter attempts ensuring steady profits.  Finally, they are
    equipped with powerful electric zappers, making short work
    of any would be thieves.  Also you can place one in a dark
    forgotten corner of the world and return several years
    later to collect the revenue from sales.  What to ask more?

    However, Clerkbots being only machines must rely on their
    programming to detect theft or vandalism.  Some say the
    robots are oblivious to certain peculiar ways of shoplifting
    which code suppliers have not thought about.

kMon::Docbot - Docbot
    DOCtor roBOT is one of the most finely crafted robot known to
    the Alpha Complex.  It is also the robot that gets to kill more
    people than best warbot ever known.  Reason is usually a small
    defect which leads to "accidents" while curing certain types
    of people.  Rumors that someone rigs docbots to eliminate his
    or her enemies are of course treasonous.

    It is said that a brand new docbot gets high class brain bot
    with capable AI but no medical data whatsoever.  Then the bot
    practices medicine until it tends to get things right which
    is the time it is allowed to operate on higher clearance
    personnel.

kMon::ProtocolDroid - protocol droid
    A protocol droid was a type of droid designed to assist sentients
    in their relations with one another and were programmed mostly for
    etiquette.  They were often used as translators between sentients
    or between sentients and computers.

        [ Wookieepedia at starwars.wikia.com ]

kMon::Securitron - securitron
    You've done the right thing, citizen.  Reporting struggles, scuffles,
    and tussles is the civic duty of every man, woman, and child.

        [ The Vault at www.falloutwiki.com ]

    Securitrons are usually armed with flashbangs or stun grenades
    which they launch at the beginning of combat and only then
    proceed to restrain misbehaving citizens using more lethal
    weaponry.  Commonly equipped with ray guns.

kMon::Guardbot - guardbot
    Guardbot is modification of a warbot.  Their armor is heavier
    but their weaponry is usually less impressive.  Also, the bot
    brain receives additional scanner procedures.  These include
    but are not limited to: toll collecting, area patrol,
    contraband scanner and janitor overseeing.

kMon::Warbot - warbot
    Warbots are combat robots.  They are designed to slaughter
    traitors, and are sometimes a little too eager to do so.
    Just a little.  They range from Warbots Mark I (man-sized)
    to the Mark IV (humongous sector-smashers).

        [ http://www.thekeep.org/~wombat/Paranoia/ ]

#MONSTERS - Y

kMon::Yautja - yautja
        "What the hell are you?" 
        -Dutch to the Predator
    
    The Predator, known factually as the Yautja, is an extraterrestrial
    species characterized by its hunting of other dangerous species for
    sport and honour, including humans.

        [ Xenopedia at avp.wikia.com ]

    The Predators are a sentient, humanoid race that breathe an atmosphere
    similar to that of Earth's, but possess a technology far more advanced
    beyond any known Terran artifice.  The Predators stalk and kill their
    prey using an arsenal of highly advanced devices, such as active
    camouflage and energy weapons.  The Predators claim their quarry's
    skull and spine as a trophy of sorts.

#MONSTERS - Z

kMon::Defiler - defiler
    Of all the Zerg Swarm defilers are perhaps the most hated
    creation of the Overmind.  Its wormlike, oozing body sports
    several legs resembling that of a spider.  It ends with a
    long glistening tail and begins with a vile maw.  It is not
    the maw filled with a set of teeth that is dangerous.  It
    is the sickly oozing substance it can vomit in seemingly
    endless quantities.  This foul fluid brings the onset of
    plague which will torture any organism and bring it to its
    knees.  While the disease is not enough to kill by itself
    it weakens the target so much over time it is often regarded
    as a death sentence.  Still, it can be cured and there are
    survivors.  Slay the vile creature before you attempt to
    remedy your condition.

    Defilers are best terminated with extreme prejudice.

kMon::Hydralisk - hydralisk
    Psiweapon: Look!  I implemented hydralisks.
    Z: *spits green sludge at Michal*
    Michal: *dodges*  Aren't they supposed to launch needle spines?
    Psiweapon: No.  I am StarCraft 1 player.  They are from first SC.
    Michal: In SC1 hydralisks use spines.  Select one and hover mouse over
            its attack upgrade picture. I t will say "needle spines 10".
    Psiweapon: O_o
    Angry mob of SC1 fans: Shut up!  Liar!  It does not matter!
    Angry mob of SC1 fans: Away with you!  Stop spreading lies!
    Michal:  <_<  >_>  <_<
    Z: *spits more sludge at Michal*
    another Z: *spits sludge too*
    Michal: *dodges*  *gets hit*  *sneaks away*

        [ Paraphrase of actual email exchange between developers ]

    Due to popular demand hydralisks are spitting green sludge.  This is
    not making them any less dangerous.  Don't try telling them about
    their SC2 cousins (or worse -- their SC1 cousins) using so called
    "more sophisticated" attack methods unless you want them very angry.

    It's not the sludge that kills you - it's the spines floating within.

#MONSTERS - ABSTRACT

kMon::AlienEmbryo - alien embryo
    An alien life form inside you is maturing.  The parasitic
    organism views you merely as temporary host to be left
    to die when you are no longer needed.  Grown up chestburster
    (or alien princess) exits through your chest by devouring
    any organs and bones that are found to be blocking its way.

    The undeveloped creature is very vulnerable to any poisons
    you may ingest.  If you want to kill it drink something
    unhealthy.  Naturally you will also take a hit but unlike
    you the embryo has virtually no chances of survival.

kMon::Invisible - invisible monster
    You remember a creature here but cannot see this place
    right now to confirm or disprove your suspicion.

kMon::XenosScum - xenos scum
    Xenos scum are non-humans whose presence threatens the Golden Throne
    and encroaches mankind's manifest destiny to rule the stars.  There
    is no interest in knowing exactly what kind of scum you are purging
    but if you desire you may page forward to receive detailed information
    on these wretched usurpers.  Fortunately for you such pointless curiosity
    will be easily forgiven as it is granted that you will purge the xenos
    afterwards.
