Recently I am working on Psychokinetic Shove. This mutation is sure a
complex one! Here are my thoughts on that matter. Perhaps you can
contribute to ensure TDTTOE:

Targeting monsters:
 - Direction 'self' does squishing. Usually no effect but tomatoes get
instantly splatted.
 - Down does nothing for non-flying creatures unless one is standing over
a pit or a vat. In that case the monster is shoved into the pit (fall
damage) or its time there is made longer. Player should be able to drown
monsters in sewage pool this way.
 - Down smashes flying creatures against the ground. If there is acid pit
falling monster causes a 3x3 acid splash "explosion". It will fly out of
the pit unless you are very fast and paralyze it. Same for sludge vat.
 - Up direction smashes against the ceiling. Non-flying creatures then
fall down and may create splash if falling on vat or into acid pit.
 - Targeting man eating plants with direction 'up' uproots them. They can
then walk and are no longer sessile creatures. Other directions have no
effect ("the man eating plant seems to be firmly rooted") unless the
plant has been uprooted already.
 - Crashing monsters into each other does damage to both possibly stunning
them. Crashing single creature against a wall has much better chance of
stunning it but damages only one entity.
 - Shoving vat slime into monsters does additional corrosive damage on
impact.
 - Throwing two same type slimes one into another merges them into one
bigger slime.
 - It should be possible to transport a creature to another level by using
the up and down direction over stairs. Flying creatures "fly back
immediately" and take no damage unless denied their flying ability
somehow.
 - If the creature is webbed then webs are ripped and move distance is
greatly reduced. This power may be used on oneself when in this
situation.
 - Creature thrown against a door acts as kicking the door with strength
determined by your power and projectile size. Heavy items also can be
used for this purpose.
 - Monolith resist any direct pushes or pulls. However, you can shove
creatures into it.
 1) Should monsters be teleported randomly instead of hitting it?
 2) Should player attempting to do this touch monolith or be teleported?
 3) Maybe above would depend on you wearing helmet? No headgear => direct
touch.

Targeting self or pets:
 - Shove up does not slam you against the ceiling if you are in pit. It is
assumed you want out.
 - Shoving self in directions stops right before walls. It can serve as a
good way to escape.

Targeting features:
 - Vats may be moved around and need to break when shoved against a wall.
 - Down does nothing.
 - Up smashes vats against the ceiling creating rain of corrosive sludge
and metal bits.
 - Up for acid pits splashes the acid at the ceiling like a geyser. IMO
targeting up at position where both a creature and acid pit resides
should:
 1) slam the creature against ceiling
 2) if it is still alive hit it with acid
 3) if it is still alive and cannot fly slam it into the acid pit
 - Direction self closes or opens doors remotely. Automatic doors may
revert immediately. If there is a creature in doorway it gets hit with
squish effect first (no message unless a tomato) and then with door
slamming. Small chance for the door to start malfunctioning ("you teach
the door evil").
 - Floor grates can be broken if a large monster is shoved upwards and
falls on it. Same for heavy things like heaps of junk or power armor.
Grates cannot be destroyed by just affecting it by psychokinetic shove
directly.

Targeting objects:
 - Self direction on grenades activates them. Works on proximity mine too.
 - Throwing a Smart-Disc should trigger the algorithm. You could make some
elaborate killing patterns with this.
 - Volatile items like canisters of napalm should explode on impact.
 - Glass/fragile canisters shatter in place if treated with self direction.
 - Floppies get broken too possibly releasing an insect if buggy.
 - Hurling items at yourself has you catch them if you are empty handed.

Targeting empty tiles should be permitted. If you are hit by the Dark
Templar in a corridor you know where the Protoss is so you should be
allowed to hurl it away. "You grip something!"

Gee, this is going to be most complicated mutant power out there so far.
Hopefully also very fun one.





> Recently I am working on Psychokinetic Shove. This mutation is sure a
> complex one! Here are my thoughts on that matter. Perhaps you can
> contribute to ensure TDTTOE:

Let´s see...

> Targeting monsters:
>  - Direction 'self' does squishing. Usually no effect but tomatoes get
> instantly splatted.

- Triggers smartbombs, kamikaze goblins and smart missiles
- In fact smartbombs in particular should be triggered by ANY direction.

>  - Targeting man eating plants with direction 'up' uproots them. They can
> then walk and are no longer sessile creatures. Other directions have no
> effect ("the man eating plant seems to be firmly rooted") unless the
> plant has been uprooted already.

- Same with sunken colonies, it uproots and changes name to "Spine Crawler"

>  - Monolith resist any direct pushes or pulls. However, you can shove
> creatures into it.
>  1) Should monsters be teleported randomly instead of hitting it?
>  2) Should player attempting to do this touch monolith or be teleported?
>  3) Maybe above would depend on you wearing helmet? No headgear => direct
> touch.

1) and 3)

>  - Up for acid pits splashes the acid at the ceiling like a geyser. IMO
> targeting up at position where both a creature and acid pit resides
> should:
>  1) slam the creature against ceiling
>  2) if it is still alive hit it with acid
>  3) if it is still alive and cannot fly slam it into the acid pit

... for a thoroughly lethal combo. Yes please :)

>  - Direction self closes or opens doors remotely. Automatic doors may
> revert immediately. If there is a creature in doorway it gets hit with
> squish effect first (no message unless a tomato) and then with door
> slamming. Small chance for the door to start malfunctioning ("you teach
> the door evil").

you teach the door evil lol

>  - Floor grates can be broken if a large monster is shoved upwards and
> falls on it. Same for heavy things like heaps of junk or power armor.
> Grates cannot be destroyed by just affecting it by psychokinetic shove
> directly.

-Glass panels are broken with any direction EXCEPT self.
-Slamming a monster between a wall and a moveable feature
should deliver great damage, and completely squish the
monster if killed this way.

> Targeting objects:
>  - Self direction on grenades activates them. Works on proximity mine too.

- Closes or tries to deploy portable holes
- Portable holes should also be able to be push/pulled around if
deployed on the ground.

> Gee, this is going to be most complicated mutant power out there so far.
> Hopefully also very fun one.

Yeah, sounds like a whole new world of push/pulling :D
