@CRACE AND PROFESSION@H


@CSoldier@H:
  Strong fighters tough enough to withstand a lot of punishment and
  deal a lot of pain.  They carry some armor and powerful weapons
  but are useless at programming and make lousy mutant power users.

@FSpace Marine@H: You're one of the tough hombres that defends our planet
  against aliens every night and day.  Your equipment is state of
  the badass art, and you've got a badass attitude to match it.

  You get a motion tracker, a pulse rifle, a flak jacket and some flares.

@FStormboy@H: Among your warband you and your buddies are viewed with a bit
  of suspicion due to your cunning in battle.  You have a talent for
  using any type of acquired weaponry and can work around many defects.

  You get a sniper rifle, a flak jacket an two incendiary grenades.

@FHunter@H: At last chance to prove yourself!  After long and very difficult
  training you are finally an adult and about to decorate yourself with
  some freshly killed trophies.

  You are equipped with some superior Yautja technology.


@CPsyker@H:
  Uncommon individuals gifted with psionic powers other of their kin can
  only envy.  While not especially good in combat once they develop their
  talents their might is undisputable.  They get some Rad-Away so they
  can try drinking some sludge early in hopes of gaining new powers.

@FPsion@H: You're a scrawny freak.  A freak with strange mutant powers.
  Momma always said not to drink radioactive waste, but you didn't
  listen and now your DNA is supercharged.

@FEmpath@H: You were gifted with strange powers from birth but you didn't
  know when enough is enough and made your community exile you for
  polluting your environment with psychic residue.

@FMastermind@H: You are even more evil than most of your reticulan kin.
  Abusing your telepathy you masquerade as benevolent space brothers - to
  your own species and others.  Why?  Because of the inmense financial
  benefits you can reap from them.

@FWeirdboy@H: For most space orcs sensitive to psionic waves the intense
  emanations are unpleasant experience.  However, you not only greatly
  enjoy them but also become thoroughly addicted to the feeling of
  psionic power release.


@CSubversive Element@H:
  These guys and gals do not work well within their own society.  They
  have some quite good combat skills and are keen on breaking software
  laws too.

@FNinja@H: A master of stealth and disguise is you!  As long as you keep
  to walls or other opaque obstacles you blend in and are very hard to
  spot.  Who cares if you don't have a ranged weapon when you can freely
  sneak up to unsuspecting victims and poke their guts out?

  You start with optimized katana and some fragmentation grenades.

@FDissident@H: You are one of the more corrupted member of your species.
  Although not sexually deviant, you play urban poker with star systems,
  and turn planets into giant computers.

  You start with a computer of your own making and good weapons.


@COther@H:

@FSoftware Engineer@H: Your Mountain Dew gut and carpal tunnel syndrome put
  you at a physical disadvantage but at least you remembered to bring
  your laptop computer along.  And your innate ability to notice buggy
  equipment sure is handy.

@FAstronaut@H: You hoped for boring but safe job in the space far away from
  galactic invaders, civil wars, hired assassins and obnoxious salesmen.
  Unfortunately for you this idyll ended in explosion of your spaceship.
  You have some funny junk and full astronaut suit but no weapon.

@FQuarterback@H: Back on Earth, you thrill crowds with your athletic skill
  and you have a cheerleader girlfriend.  But in space, you can be
  savior of the universe!

@FJanitor@H: You're used to being ignored by those with more glamorous job
  titles, but it's you who keeps the galaxy turning, unclogging its
  billions and billions of toilets.  You begin your quest with two
  indispensable tools: a master keycard and monkey wrench.  Being an
  orc allows you to use buggy weapons and armor with ease.


@COutsider@H:
  These are challenge professions.  Sure, you get some nice benefits
  but compared to your disadvantages they are merely a consolation
  prize.

@FXel'Naga@H: Designing specimens was your daily job but you grew bored
  and decided to explore the galaxy somewhat.  Your ship was caught
  in a space-time anomaly.  Here you are, stranded on a lone asteroid
  with nothing to help you.  Not even a piece of information.


Some professions are just plain more difficult than others.  Probably
the best roles for beginners are the Space Marine, the Yautja Hunter,
the Ninja, the Janitor and the Software Engineer.  Xel'Naga are blind
and ridiculously difficult.
